 thank you so much. that's so nice. isn't he a great guy. he doesn't get a fair press; he doesn't get it. it's just not fair. and i have to tell|you i'm here, and very strongly here, because i have great respect for steve king and have great respect likewise for citizens united, david and|everybody, and tremendous resect for the tea party. also, also the people of iowa. they have something in common. hard-working people. they want to|work, they want to make the country great. i love the people of iowa. so that's the way it is. very simple.|with that said, our country is really headed in the wrong direction with a president who is doing an absolutely terrible job. the world is collapsing|around us, and many of the problems we've caused. our president is either grossly incompetent, a word that more and more people are using, and i think|i was the first to use it, or he has a completely different agenda than you want to know about, which could be possible. in any event, washington is|broken, and our country is in serious trouble and total disarray. very simple. politicians are all talk, no action. they are all talk and no action.|and it's constant; it never ends.|and i'm a conservative, actually very conservative, and i'm a republican. and i'm very disappointed by our republican politicians. because they let|the president get away with absolute murder. you see always, oh we're going to do this, we're going to . nothing ever happens; nothing ever happens.|you look at obamacare. a total catastrophe and by the way it really kicks in in '16 and it is going to be a disaster. people are closing up shops.|doctors are quitting the business. i have a friend of mine who's a doctor, a very good doctor, a very successful guy. he said, i have more accountants|than i have patients. and he needs because it is so complicated and so terrible and he's never had that before and he's going to close up his business.|and he was very successful guy. but it's happening more and more.|look at obamacare with a $5 billion website. i have many websites, many, many websites. they're all over the place. but for $10, okay?|now everything about obamacare was a lie. it was a filthy lie. and when you think about it, lies, i mean are they prosecuted? does anyone do|anything? and what are the republican politicians doing about it? he lied about the doctor, he lied about every aspect. you can keep your plan. and|you've all heard that hundreds of times. that's like the real estate location, location. i don't even say it anymore because everybody goes location,|location. but you have heard this about obamacare.|and it's disgraceful. it's a big, fat, horrible lie. your deductibles are going through the roof. you're not going to get unless you're hit by an|army tank, you're not going to get coverage. and people that had plans that they loved, that they really loved, don't have those plans anymore. so|it's a real, real disaster. and somebody has to repeal and replace obamacare. and they have to do it fast and not just talk about it.|now, we have to build a fence. and it's got to be a beauty. who can build better than trump? i build; it's what i do. i build; i build nice fences,|but i build great buildings. fences are easy, believe me. i saw the other day on television people just walking across the border. they're walking.|the military is standing there holding guns and people are just walking right in front, coming into our country. it is so terrible. it is so unfair.|it is so incompetent. and we don't have the best coming in. we have people that are criminals, we have people that are crooks. you can certainly have|terrorists. you can certainly have islamic terrorists. you can have anything coming across the border. we don't do anything about it. so i would say|that if i run and if i win, i would certainly start by building a very, very powerful border.|again, the politicians talk about it and they do nothing about it. benghazi. oh, benghazi, benghazi. everything is benghazi. what happens? nothing.|irs, e-mails. i get sued all the time, okay. i run a big business. you know i've always said it's very, very hard for a person who is very|successful. i have done so many deals. almost all of them have been tremendously successful. you'll see that when i file my statements. i mean you|will see; you will be very proud of me, okay. but i've always said, and i said it strongly, it's very hard for somebody that does tremendous numbers of|deals to run for politics, run for political office, any office, let alone president. because you've done so much; you've beaten so many people; you've|created so many look, obama, what did he do? no deal. he never did a deal. he did one deal. a house. and if you did that house you'd be in jail|right now, okay. he got away with murder. but i can tell you, e-mails. irs, the e-mails, thousands of them, they were lost; they were lost. if you|were in my world you would know that e-mails can't be lost; they can't be lost. so why aren't our politicians finding out where those e-mails are?|they talk about executive orders and they talk about immigration and they talk about oh well we have to stop the border; that's the end of it. believe|me if i did something you would have a border that would be great. but they talk about it. and then you have a president that does an executive order.|nobody even heard of an executive order. he does it to let people come in and nobody does anything about executive orders. why didn't they go to court|and ask for declaratory judgment which is something that when you know somebody is going to go after you and when it's in writing, and he's been saying|it for a long time; he said, i'm going to approve this and that why didn't our republicans go in and get a declaratory judgment from the courts because|you could have started the process six months earlier. instead they have a weak lawsuit, that probably the time it's finished, i know so much about|this, six, seven, eight years from now everyone's going to forget about it. we'll be into a different mode, and our country will be further destroyed.|so we have to do something.|jobs. china. i mean i've made so much money fighting against the chinese. one of the best deals i ever did was against the chinese, and they respect|me for it. and i know them. and they say, we can't believe what we're getting away with. we can't believe how stupid your leaders are. they tell me|that. now they don't know i'm going to go and make a speech about it, but why not. but they tell me that.|and by the way, especially for the folks here that sell so much goods, i mean the goods you sell are incredible; i don't know if you've been watching|what's happening with the devaluations of so many countries. the euro, china is going crazy with the devaluation. i never thought that they'd have the|guts to do what they're doing. they are devaluing down to nothing. and what it's going to do is make it impossible for you to sell your product; it's|going make it impossible for you to compete. and they're getting away with it. and they wouldn't have even done it two years ago, but now they feel|we're so weak and we have so many different problems all over the world that they can do it. but you watch this devaluation of all of it. i mean the|euro, china, mexico; everybody is devaluing. and when you hear the dollar is getting stronger, it sounds good. you know it's one of those things,|sounds good. be very careful. be very careful. because we're just going to lose more and more business to these foreign countries that really know|what they are doing. they have it set. don't forget another thing. china became the number one economic power a year ago. that was unthinkable; to|think that that was going to happen. it was absolutely unthinkable. so it happened and it's very, very sad.|now we spent $2 trillion in iraq. we got nothing. they don't even respect us; they don't even care about us. until they started getting their ass|kicked, and call, oh please come back and help us. we want you out; then all of the sudden a new group forms, isis. by the way, you know how they|formed. they took the oil. and for those of you that know and love donald trump there are some of you have i been saying for four years, keep the|oil. so now isis has the oil. and the stuff that isis doesn't have, iran is going to take. so we get nothing. we have $2 trillion and we have|thousands of lives lost, thousands, and we have, what do we have. i mean i walk down the streets of new york and i see so many wounded warriors,|incredible people. and we have to help those people, we have to help our vets, we have to help our military, we have to build our military. but, and|we have to do it fast; we have to do it fast. we have incompetent people. they put people in charge that have no clue what they're doing. it needs|money.|we have to make our country rich again so we do that, so we can save social security. 'cause i'm not a cutter; i'll probably be the only republican|that does not want to cut social security. i'm not a cutter of social security; i want to make the country rich so that social security can be|afforded, and medicare and medicaid. get rid of the waste, get rid of the fraud, but you deserve your social security; you've been paying your|security. and like, i like congressman ryan, i like a lot of the people that are talking about you know cutting social security, and by the way the|democrats are eating your lunch on this issue. it's an issue that you're not going to win; you've got to make the country rich again and strong again|so that you can afford it, and so you can afford military, and all of the other things.|now, we have a game changer now, and the game changer is nuclear weapons. we really do have to get strong, and we have to get strong fast. we can't|let iran get a nuclear weapon. we can't do it. can't do it. we cannot let that happen. you know in the old days, i would have said 100 years ago, 50|years ago, 30 years ago, pull out and let them fight each other.|here we are in syria. we're fighting people that want to overturn syria. think of this. we're fighting isis, but isis wants to overturn the|government. maybe you let them fight for a little while and then you take out the one that remains, okay. but think of it; think of it. isis is|fighting them and we are bombing the hell out of them, but we want syria to fall. there are so many things; there are so many things.|but the one game changer that we have to be careful with, that we never really had to think about too much before, other than a cetain number of years|ago, is the nuclear. nuclear today, it's not like soldiers in uniforms shooting rifles. you can take out the east coast of this country, you can take|out large sections of the midwest, you can take out things that were unthinkable. the power. and we have to be in a position where that never, ever,|ever, every happens. we've never had this before.|we have a situation in afghanistan; we're spending tremendous amounts of money there. we're trying to do the right thing. we have leadership,|again no leadership respects us. you know, leadership of other places never respect stupid people, okay, that's one thing you're going to find. the|same thing is happening there. and i never knew that afghanistan until a year ago or so, afghanistan has tremendous wealth in minerals, different, not|the oil, but minerals. and we're fighting here, and on the other side of the mountain china is taking out all the minerals. they're taking it out.|trillion of dollars and millions of dollars of minerals. so we're fighting here and they are taking it out, looking at us and saying thank you very|much sucker. it's really, really crazy.|so we have to rebuild quickly our infrastructure of this country. if we don't the other day in ohio a bridge collapsed. bridges are collapsing all|over the country. the reports on bridges and the like are unbelievable, what's happening with our infrastructure.|i go to saudi arabia, i go to dubai; i am doing big jobs in dubai. i go to various different places. i go to china. they are building a bridge on|every corner. they have bridges that make the george washington bridge like small time stuff. they're building the most incredible things you have|ever seen. they are building airports in qatar which they like to say "cutter" but i've always said "qatar" so i'll keep it "qatar" what the hell.|but they're building, they're building an airport and have just completed an airport the likes of which you have never seen, in dubai an airport the|likes of which you have never seen. and then i come back to laguardia where the runways have potholes. the place is falling apart. you go into the|main terminal and they have a terraza floor that's so old it's falling apart. and they have a hole in it, and they replace it with asphalt. so you|have a white terraza floor and they put asphalt all over the place. this is inside, not outside. and i just left dubai where they have the most|incredible thing you've ever seen. in fact my pilot said oh mr. trump this is such an honor. i said it's not an honor; they're just smart. but you|look at lax, and you look at kennedy airport, and you look at our airports generally, you look at our roadways where they're crumbling.|you look at all of the things that are bad i'll give you an example. and this isn't part of what i was going to say, but i ride down the highways and|somebody makes those guard rails. you know the guard rails. the ones that sort of go like this that are always bent, rusted|and horrible. did you ever see more than like 20 feet which isn't corroded, or bent or the heat, if it gets too hot, it just crushes. now they've been|selling this thing for 25 years. why doesn't someone stop them and get something that works. because they don't know; they don't know what's|happening. somebody made a lot of money on that. they don't know what is happening.|so we have to make our country great again. we have to rebuild our country. and we have a long way to go. we are just in such serious trouble because|we owe so much money. now we owe it to the chinese, a lot of it. we owe it to other countries. they're the ones that hold the debt. and then we give|them money. we have countries that we owe money to and yet we're giving them subsidies. i just ordered thousands of television sets and between lg and|samsung and i mean you know no american company comes to see and comes to bid. it's south korea, and whenever they have a problem we send the|battleships, we send the destroyers, we send our airplanes, we're going to protect them. what are we doing; why aren't they paying us? why aren't they|paying us; what are we doing? i order thousands and thousands of sets all the time, for some reason it's south korea. you know whether it's china,|south korea, but in this case televisions, south korea. why aren't they doing something to justify what is going on?|now, we have a very important election coming up. we have a presidential election coming up. and we have some good people. nobody like trump of|course, but these are minor details. we have some good people.|it' can't be mitt because mitt ran and failed. he failed. i mean i liked him. look like him, dislike him the 47% statement that he made, that's not|going away. the romneycare from massachusetts, that's not going away. what do you think they're going to say oh we won't bring that up this time.|it's not fair because it was a long t that doesn't work. but more importantly, he choked. something happened to him in the last month. he had that|election won. and let me tell you something. that election, sort of like a dealmaker that can't close the deal. i know many of those guys; they get|it up to the one-yard line, they go ah, ah i can't close it. or a golfer that can't sink the three-footer to win the tournament. and there are many of|them. most people are like that; i mean most people are like that. you can't give somebody another chance, 'cause actually i think this election is|tougher to win than beating a failed president. i really do. i think beating obama would have been a much easier one than the one that's coming up,|which is sad to say but true. so you can't have romney. he choked.|you can't have bush. the last thing we need is another bush. now i made that statement very strongly, and now every one says the last thing you|know they copied it. i'll be accused of copying the statement; that's the bad thing. but i said it. i was the one that said it first, and i mean it.|the last thing we need is another bush. now, he's totally in favor of common core; that's a disaster, that's bad, it should be local and all of that.|but he's totally in favor of common core. he's very, very weak on immigration. don't forget remember his statement they come for love. i say, what?|come for love? you've got these people coming, half of them are criminals. they're coming for love? they're coming for a lot of other reasons, and|it's not love. and when he runs, you got to remember his brother really gave us obama. i was never a big fan, but his brother gave us obama. 'cause|abraham lincoln coming home back from the dead could not have won the election because it was going so badly and the economy was just absolutely in|shambles that last couple of months. and then he appointed justice roberts. and jeb wanted justice roberts. and justice roberts basically approved|obamacare in a shocking decision that nobody believes. so you can't have jeb bush. and he's going to lose aside from that; he's not going to win. so|mitt and you just can't have those two. that's it. that's it. it's so simple.|so just in summing up and i just wrote a few of these little points down because it's very important. and i watch these teleprompters, and by the way i|think any president candidate that runs should not be allowed to use a teleprompter, because we got one that uses teleprompters. and people say, oh he|is so quick on his feet. he is reading it. i mean give me a break. everything is read. you don't really test the mettle of a man or a woman unless|they can get up on stage and talk. and that's what we ended up getting the king of teleprompters. but, so when i look at these things here i say you|know what, it's so much easier, it would be so nice, just bah, pa, bah, pa, bah, bing, bing, bing. no problems, get off stage, everybody falls asleep|and that's the end of that. but we have to do something about these teleprompters.|but in looking at these situations i built an incredible company. and you'll see that. an incredible company; a wonderful company. i employ|thousands of people and i love doing what i'm doing. and in a certain way, i wish i weren't doing this, but our country is in such trouble and would be|so easy to fix. we have such great potential.|so if i run for president and if i win, i would totally succeed in:|creating jobs;|defeating isis and stopping the islamic terrorists and you have to do that;|reducing the budget deficit so important, have to do it;|securing our southern border and i mean seriously securing it;|stopping nuclear weapons in iran and elsewhere;|saving social security, medicare and medicaid, without cutting it down to the bone because it's not fair to people that have been paying for their whole|lives and other people and it's not fair to future people coming up, and we can do it;|repealing obamacare and replacing it with something far better for the people, and far less expensive, both for the people and for the country. and|believe me there are plans that are so much better for everybody. and everybody can be covered. i'm not saying leave 50-percent of the people out.|everybody can be c this plan is just a basic disaster. nobody knows. as bad as the website was, this is how bad the plan itself is;|fixing our country's infrastructure, our bridges, our schools, our highways, our airports. and that, i can tell you, nobody is close to trump. i just|got the best hotel in north america. i'm building, which is sort of interesting, think of this one. i'm building one of the great hotels of the world|on pennsylvania avenue, right opposite the white house, between the white house and congress. right on penn. the old post office site, and i got it|from obama. do you believe that? and everybody wanted it. so, i can't believe it myself. but it's going to be fantastic;|and so many other things.|i know what needs to be done to make america great again. we can make this country great again. the potential is enormous. and i am serious thinking|of running for president because i can do the job.|thank you all very much. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you very much, everybody. thank you. beautiful. thank you.|thank you for the opportunity to speak to you, and thank you to the center for national interest for honoring me with this invitation. it truly is a|great honor. id like to talk today about how to develop a new foreign policy direction for our country, one that replaces randomness with purpose,|ideology with strategy, and chaos with peace.|its time to shake the rust off americas foreign policy. its time to invite new voices and new visions into the fold, something we have to|do. the direction i will outline today will also return us to a timeless principle. my foreign policy will always put the interests of the american|people and american security above all else. it has to be first. has to be.|that will be the foundation of every single decision that i will make.|america first will be the major and overriding theme of my administration. but to chart our path forward, we must first briefly take a look back. we|have a lot to be proud of.|in the 1940s we saved the world. the greatest generation beat back the nazis and japanese imperialists. then we saved the world again. this time, from|totalitarianism and communism. the cold war lasted for decades but, guess what, we won and we won big. democrats and republicans working together got|mr. gorbachev to heed the words of president reagan, our great president, when he said, tear down this wall.|history will not forget what he did. a very special man and president. unfortunately, after the cold war our foreign policy veered badly off course. we|failed to develop a new vision for a new time. in fact, as time went on, our foreign policy began to make less and less sense. logic was replaced with|foolishness and arrogance, which led to one foreign policy disaster after another.|they just kept coming and coming. we went from mistakes in iraq to egypt to libya, to president obamas line in the sand in syria. each of these|actions have helped to throw the region into chaos and gave isis the space it needs to grow and prosper. very bad. it all began with a dangerous idea|that we could make western democracies out of countries that had no experience or interests in becoming a western democracy.|we tore up what institutions they had and then were surprised at what we unleashed. civil war, religious fanaticism, thousands of americans and just|killed be lives, lives, lives wasted. horribly wasted. many trillions of dollars were lost as a result. the vacuum was created that isis would fill.|iran, too, would rush in and fill that void much to their really unjust enrichment.|they have benefited so much, so sadly, for us. our foreign policy is a complete and total disaster. no vision. no purpose. no direction. no strategy.|today i want to identify five main weaknesses in our foreign policy.|first, our resources are totally over extended. president obama has weakened our military by weakening our economy. hes crippled us with wasteful|spending, massive debt, low growth, a huge trade deficit and open borders. our manufacturing trade deficit with the world is now approaching $1 trillion|a year.|were rebuilding other countries while weakening our own. ending the theft of american jobs will give us resources we need to rebuild our military,|which has to happen and regain our financial independence and strength. i am the only person running for the presidency who understands this and this is|a serious problem.|im the only one believe me, i know them all, im the only one who knows how to fix it.|secondly, our allies are not paying their fair share, and ive been talking about this recently a lot. our allies must contribute toward their|financial, political, and human costs, have to do it, of our tremendous security burden. but many of them are simply not doing so.|they look at the united states as weak and forgiving and feel no obligation to honor their agreements with us. in nato, for instance, only 4 of 28 other|member countries besides america, are spending the minimum required 2 percent of gdp on defense. we have spent trillions of dollars over time on planes,|missiles, ships, equipment, building up our military to provide a strong defense for europe and asia.|the countries we are defending must pay for the cost of this defense, and if not, the u.s. must be prepared to let these countries defend themselves. we|have no choice.|the whole world will be safer if our allies do their part to support our common defense and security. a trump administration will lead a free world that|is properly armed and funded, and funded beautifully.|thirdly, our friends are beginning to think they cant depend on us. weve had a president who dislikes our friends and bows to our enemies,|something that weve never seen before in the history of our country. he negotiated a disastrous deal with iran, and then we watched them ignore its|terms even before the ink was dry. iran cannot be allowed to have a nuclear weapon, cannot be allowed. remember that, cannot be allowed to have a|nuclear weapon.|and under a trump administration, will never, ever be allowed to have that nuclear weapon.|all of this without even mentioning the humiliation of the united states with irans treatment of our ten captured sailors so vividly i|remember that day. in negotiation, you must be willing to walk. the iran deal, like so many of our worst agreements, is the result of not being willing|to leave the table.|when the other side knows youre not going to walk, it becomes absolutely impossible to win you just cant win. at the same time, your|friends need to know that you will stick by the agreements that you have with them. youve made that agreement, you have to stand by it and the|world will be a better place. president obama gutted our missile defense program and then abandoned our missile defense plans with poland and the czech|republic. he supported the ouster of a friendly regime in egypt that had a longstanding peace treaty with israel, and then helped bring the muslim|brotherhood to power in its place.|israel, our great friend and the one true democracy in the middle east has been snubbed and criticized by an administration that lacks moral clarity.|just a few days ago, vice president biden again criticized israel, a force for justice and peace, for acting as an impatient peace area in the region.|president obama has not been a friend to israel. he has treated iran with tender love and care and made it a great power. iran has, indeed, become a|great, great power in just a very short period of time, because of what weve done. all of the expense and all at the expense of israel, our allies|in the region and very importantly, the united states itself.|weve picked fights with our oldest friends, and now theyre starting to look elsewhere for help. remember that. not good.|fourth, our rivals no longer respect us. in fact, theyre just as confused as our allies, but in an even bigger problem is they dont take us|seriously anymore. the truth is they dont respect us. when president obama landed in cuba on air force one, no leader was there, nobody, to greet|perhaps an incident without precedent in the long and prestigious history of air force one. then amazingly, the same thing happened in saudi arabia.|its called no respect. absolutely no respect.|do you remember when the president made a long and expensive trip to copenhagen, denmark, to get the olympics for our country, and after this|unprecedented effort, it was announced that the united states came in fourth fourth place? the president of the united states making this trip|unprecedented comes in fourth place. he should have known the result before making such an embarrassing commitment. we were laughed at all|over the world, as we have been many, many times.|the list of humiliations go on and on and on. president obama watches helplessly as north korea increases its aggression and expands further and further|with its nuclear reach. our president has allowed china to continue its economic assault on american jobs and wealth, refusing to enforce trade deals|and apply leverage on china necessary to rein in north korea. we have the leverage. we have the power over china, economic power, and people dont|understand it. and with that economic power, we can rein in and we can get them to do what they have to do with north korea, which is totally out of|control.|he has even allowed china to steal government secrets with cyber attacks and engaged in industrial espionage against the united states and its|companies. weve let our rivals and challengers think they can get away with anything, and they do. they do at will. it always happens. if president|obamas goal had been to weaken america, he could not have done a better job.|finally, america no longer has a clear understanding of our foreign policy goals. since the end of the cold war and the breakup of the soviet union,|weve lacked a coherent foreign policy. one day, were bombing libya and getting rid of a dictator to foster democracy for civilians. the next|day, were watching the same civilians suffer while that country falls and absolutely falls apart. lives lost, massive moneys lost. the world is a|different place.|were a humanitarian nation, but the legacy of the obama-clinton interventions will be weakness, confusion and disarray, a mess. weve made the|middle east more unstable and chaotic than ever before. we left christians subject to intense persecution and even genocide.|we have done nothing to help the christians, nothing, and we should always be ashamed for that, for that lack of action. our actions in iraq, libya and|syria have helped unleash isis, and were in a war against radical islam, but president obama wont even name the enemy, and unless you name the|enemy, you will never ever solve the problem.|hillary clinton also refuses to say the words radical islam, even as she pushes for a massive increase in refugees coming into our country. after|secretary clintons failed intervention in libya, islamic terrorists in benghazi took down our consulate and killed our ambassador and three brave|americans. then, instead of taking charge that night, hillary clinton decided to go home and sleep. incredible.|clinton blames it all on a video, an excuse that was a total lie, proven to be absolutely a total lie. our ambassador was murdered and our secretary of|state misled the nation. and, by the way, she was not awake to take that call at 3 oclock in the morning. and now isis is making millions and|millions of dollars a week selling libya oil. and you know what? we dont blockade, we dont bomb, we dont do anything about it. its|almost as if our country doesnt even know whats happening, which could be a fact and could be true. this will all change when i become|president.|to our friends and allies, i say america is going to be strong again. america is going to be reliable again. its going to be a great and reliable|ally again. its going to be a friend again. were going to finally have a coherent foreign policy based upon american interests and the shared|interests of our allies.|were getting out of the nation-building business and instead focusing on creating stability in the world. our moments of greatest strength came|when politics ended at the waters edge. we need a new rational american foreign policy, informed by the best minds and supported by both parties,|and it will be by both parties democrats, republicans, independents, everybody, as well as by our close allies.|this is how we won the cold war and its how we will win our new future struggles, which may be many, which may be complex, but we will win if i|become president.|first, we need a long-term plan to halt the spread and reach of radical islam. containing the spread of radical islam must be a major foreign policy|goal of the united states and indeed the world. events may require the use of military force, but its also a philosophical struggle, like our long|struggle in the cold war.|in this, were going to be working very closely with our allies in the muslim world, all of which are at risk from radical islamic violence, attacks|and everything else. it is a dangerous world, more dangerous now than it has ever been.|we should work thank you.|we should work together with any nation in the region that is threatened by the rise of radical islam. but this has to be a two-way street. they must|also be good to us. remember that. they have to be good to us, no longer one way. its now two-way. and remember, us and all were doing, they|have to appreciate what weve done to them. were going to help, but they have to appreciate what weve done for them. the struggle against|radical islam also takes place in our homeland. there are scores of recent migrants inside our borders charged with terrorism. for every case known to|the public, there are dozens and dozens more. we must stop importing extremism through senseless immigration policies. we have no idea where these|people are coming from. theres no documentation. theres no paperwork. theres nothing. we have to be smart. we have to be vigilant.|a pause for reassessment will help us to prevent the next san bernardino or frankly, much worse. all you have to do is look at the world trade center|and september 11th, one of the great catastrophes, in my opinion, the single greatest military catastrophe in the history of our country; worse than|pearl harbor because you take a look at whats happened, and citizens were attacked, as opposed to the military being attacked one of the true|great catastrophes.|and then theres isis. i have a simple message for them. their days are numbered. i wont tell them where and i wont tell them how. we|must|we must as a nation be more unpredictable. we are totally predictable. we tell everything. were sending troops. we tell them. were sending|something else. we have a news conference. we have to be unpredictable. and we have to be unpredictable starting now.|but theyre going to be gone. isis will be gone if im elected president. and theyll be gone quickly. they will be gone very, very quickly.|secondly, we have to rebuild our military and our economy. the russians and chinese have rapidly expanded their military capability, but look at|whats happened to us. our nuclear weapons arsenal, our ultimate deterrent, has been allowed to atrophy and is desperately in need of modernization|and renewal. and it has to happen immediately. our active duty armed forces have shrunk from 2 million in 1991 to about 1.3 million today. the navy has|shrunk from over 500 ships to 272 ships during this same period of time. the air force is about one-third smaller than 1991. pilots flying b-52s in|combat missions today. these planes are older than virtually everybody in this room.|and what are we doing about this? president obama has proposed a 2017 defense budget that in real dollars, cuts nearly 25 percent from what we were|spending in 2011. our military is depleted and were asking our generals and military leaders to worry about global warming.|we will spend what we need to rebuild our military. it is the cheapest, single investment we can make. we will develop, build and purchase the best|equipment known to mankind. our military dominance must be unquestioned, and i mean unquestioned, by anybody and everybody.|but we will look for savings and spend our money wisely. in this time of mounting debt, right now we have so much debt that nobody even knows how to|address the problem. but i do. no one dollar can be wasted. not one single dollar can we waste. were also going to have to change our trade,|immigration and economic policies to make our economy strong again. and to put americans first again.|this will ensure that our own workers, right here in america, get the jobs and higher pay that will grow our tax revenues, increase our economic might|as a nation, make us strong financially again. so, so important. we need to think smart about areas where our technological superiority, and nobody|comes close, gives us an edge.|this includes 3d printing, artificial intelligence and cyber warfare. a great country also takes care of its warriors. our commitment to them is|absolute, and i mean absolute. a trump administration will give our servicemen and women the best equipment and support in the world when they serve and|where they serve. and the best care in the world when they return as veterans and they come back home to civilian life. our veterans |our veterans have not been treated fairly or justly. these are our great people and we must treat them fairly. we must even treat them really, really|well and that will happen under the trump administration.|finally, we must develop a foreign policy based on american interests. businesses do not succeed when they lose sight of their core interests and|neither do countries. look at what happened in the 1990s. our embassies in kenya and tanzania and this was a horrible time for us were|attacked. and 17 brave sailors were killed on the u.s.s. cole.|and what did we do? it seemed we put more effort into adding china into the world trade organization, which has been a total disaster for the united|states. frankly, we spent more time on that than we did in stopping al qaeda. we even had an opportunity to take out osama bin laden and we didnt|do it|and then we got hit at the world trade center and the pentagon. again, the worst attack on our country in its history. our foreign policy goals must be|based on americas core national security interests. and the following will be my priorities.|in the middle east our goals must be, and i mean must be, to defeat terrorists and promote regional stability, not radical change. we need to be|clearsighted about the groups that will never be anything other than enemies. and believe me, we have groups that no matter what you do, they will be|the enemy.: we have to be smart enough to recognize who those groups are, who those people are, and not help them. and we must only be generous to those|that prove they are indeed our friends.|we desire to live peacefully and in friendship with russia and china. we have serious differences with these two nations, and must regard them with open|eyes, but we are not bound to be adversaries. we should seek common ground based on shared interests.|russia, for instance, has also seen the horror of islamic terrorism. i believe an easing of tensions, and improved relations with russia from a position|of strength only is possible, absolutely possible. common sense says this cycle, this horrible cycle of hostility must end and ideally will end soon.|good for both countries.|some say the russians wont be reasonable. i intend to find out. if we cant make a deal under my administration, a deal thats great |not good, great for america, but also good for russia, then we will quickly walk from the table. its as simple as that. were going to|find out.|fixing our relations with china is another important step and really toward creating an even more prosperous period of time. china respects|strength and by letting them take advantage of us economically, which they are doing like never before, we have lost all of their respect.|we have a massive trade deficit with china, a deficit that we have to find a way quickly, and i mean quickly, to balance. a strong and smart america is|an america that will find a better friend in china, better than we have right now. look at what china is doing in the south china sea. theyre not|supposed to be doing it.|no respect for this country or this president. we can both benefit or we can both go our separate ways. if need be, thats whats going to have|to happen.|after im elected president, i will also call for a summit with our nato allies and a separate summit with our asian allies. in these summits, we|will not only discuss a rebalancing of financial commitments, but take a fresh look at how we can adopt new strategies for tackling our common|challenges. for instance, we will discuss how we can upgrade natos outdated mission and structure, grown out of the cold war to confront our shared|challenges, including migration and islamic terrorism.|i will not hesitate to deploy military force when there is no alternative. but if america fights, it must only fight to win.|i will never sent our finest into battle unless necessary, and i mean absolutely necessary, and will only do so if we have a plan for victory with a|capital v.|our goal is peace and prosperity, not war and destruction. the best way to achieve those goals is through a disciplined, deliberate and consistent|foreign policy. with president obama and secretary clinton weve had the exact opposite a reckless, rudderless and aimless foreign policy, one|that has blazed the path of destruction in its wake.|after losing thousands of lives and spending trillions of dollars, we are in far worst shape in the middle east than ever, ever before. i challenge|anyone to explain the strategic foreign policy vision of obama/clinton. it has been a complete and total disaster.|i will also be prepared to deploy americas economic resources. financial leverage and sanctions can be very, very persuasive, but we need to use|them selectively and with total determination. our power will be used if others do not play by the rules. in other words, if they do not treat us|fairly. our friends and enemies must know that if i draw a line in the sand, i will enforce that line in the sand. believe me.|however, unlike other candidates for the presidency, war and aggression will not be my first instinct. you cannot have a foreign policy without|diplomacy. a superpower understands that caution and restraint are really truly signs of strength. although not in government service, i was totally|against the war in iraq, very proudly, saying for many years that it would destabilize the middle east. sadly, i was correct, and the biggest|beneficiary has been has been iran, who is systematically taking over iraq and gaining access to their very rich oil reserves, something it has wanted|to do for decades.|and now, to top it off, we have isis. my goal is to establish a foreign policy that will endure for several generations. thats why i also look and|have to look for talented experts with approaches and practical ideas, rather than surrounding myself with those who have perfect rsums but very|little to brag about except responsibility for a long history of failed policies and continued losses at war. we have to look to new people.|we have to look to new people because many of the old people frankly dont know what theyre doing, even though they may look awfully good|writing in the new york times or being watched on television.|finally, i will work with our allies to reinvigorate western values and institutions. instead of trying to spread universal values that not everybody|shares or wants, we should understand that strengthening and promoting western civilization and its accomplishments will do more to inspire positive|reforms around the world than military interventions.|these are my goals as president. i will seek a foreign policy that all americans, whatever their party, can support, so important, and which our friends|and allies will respect and totally welcome. the world must know that we do not go abroad in search of enemies, that we are always happy when old|enemies become friends and when old friends become allies, thats what we want. we want them to be our allies.|we want the world to be we want to bring peace to the world. too much destruction out there, too many destructive weapons. the power of weaponry|is the single biggest problem that we have today in the world.|to achieve these goals, americans must have confidence in their country and its leadership. again, many americans must wonder why we our politicians|seem more interested in defending the borders of foreign countries than in defending their own. americans.|americans must know that were putting the american people first again on trade.|so true. on trade, on immigration, on foreign policy. the jobs, incomes and security of the american worker will always be my first priority.|no country has ever prospered that failed to put its own interests first. both our friends and our enemies put their countries above ours and we, while|being fair to them, must start doing the same. we will no longer surrender this country or its people to the false song of globalism. the nation-state|remains the true foundation for happiness and harmony. i am skeptical of international unions that tie us up and bring america down and will never|enter.|and under my administration, we will never enter america into any agreement that reduces our ability to control our own affairs.|nafta, as an example, has been a total disaster for the united states and has emptied our states literally emptied our states of our manufacturing|and our jobs. and ive just gotten to see it. ive toured pennsylvania. ive toured new york. ive toured so many of the states. they|have been cleaned out. their manufacturing is gone.|never again, only the reverse and i have to say this strongly never again; only the reverse will happen. we will keep our jobs and bring in|new ones. there will be consequences for the companies that leave the united states only to exploit it later. they fire the people. they take advantage|of the united states. there will be consequences for those companies. never again.|under a trump administration, no american citizen will ever again feel that their needs come second to the citizens of a foreign country.|i will view as president the world through the clear lens of american interests. i will be americas greatest defender and most loyal champion. we|will not apologize for becoming successful again, but will instead embrace the unique heritage that makes us who we are.|the world is most peaceful and most prosperous when america is strongest. america will continue and continue forever to play the role of peacemaker. we|will always help save lives and indeed humanity itself, but to play the role, we must make america strong again.|and always always, always, we must make, and we have to look at it from every angle, and we have no choice, we must make america respected again.|we must make america truly wealthy again. and we must we have to and we will make america great again. and if we do that and if we do that,|perhaps this century can be the most peaceful and prosperous the world has ever, ever known. thank you very much, everybody. i appreciate it. thank you.|a hand with little fingers coming out of a stem. like, little. look at my hands. theyre fine. nobody other than graydon carter years ago used to|use that. my hands are normal hands. during a debate, he was losing, and he said, "oh, he has small hands and therefore, you know what that means." this|was not me. this was rubio that said, "he has small hands and you know what that means." okay? so, he started it. so, what i said a couple of days later|and what happened is i was on line shaking hands with supporters, and one of supporters got up and he said, "mr. trump, you have strong hands. you|have good-sized hands." and then another one would say, "you have great hands, mr. trump, i had no idea." i said, "what do you mean?" he said, "i|thought you were like deformed, and i thought you had small hands." i had fifty people is that a correct statement? i mean people were writing, "how|are mr. trumps hands?" my hands are fine. you know, my hands are normal. slightly large, actually. in fact, i buy a slightly smaller than large|glove, okay? no, but i did this because everybody was saying to me, "oh, your hands are very nice. they are normal." so rubio, in a debate, said,|because he had nothing else to say now i was hitting him pretty hard. he wanted to do his don rickles stuff and it didnt work out. obviously,|it didnt work too well. but one of the things he said was "he has small hands and therefore, you know what that means, he has small something|else." you can look it up. i didnt say it.|i dont want people to go around thinking that i have a problem. im telling you, ruth, i had so many people. i would say 25, 30 people would|tell me every time id shake peoples hand, "oh, you have nice hands." why shouldnt i? and, by the way, by saying that i solved the|problem. nobody questions i even held up my hands, and said, "look, take a look at that hand."|i dont know if it was presidential, honestly, whether it is or not. he said, donald trump has small hands and therefore he has small|something else. i didnt say that. and all i did is when he failed, when he was failing, when he was, when christie made him look bad, i gave|him the a little recap and i said, and i said, and i had this big strong powerful hand ready to grab him, because i thought he was going to faint.|and everybody took it fine. whether it was presidential or not i cant tell you. i can just say that what he said was a lie. and everybody, they|wanted to do stories on my hands; after i said that, they never did. and then i held up the hand, i showed people the hand. you know, when ive got|a big audience. so yeah, i think its not a question of presidential|oh boy. we love nevada. we love nevada. thank you. thank you. oh this is a great place. thank you very much. great evening. we will be celebrating for|a long time tonight. have a good time. have a good time.|you know we werent expectinga couple of months ago, we werent expecting to win this one, you know that, right? we werent. of course|if you listen to the pundits, we werent expected to win too much, and now were winning, winning, winning the country. and soon the|countrys going to start winning, winning, winning. so i want to thank the volunteers. theyve been unbelievable. these people, they work like|endlessly, endlessly. were not going to forget it. and weve had some great numbers coming out of texas, and amazing numbers coming out of|tennessee and georgia and arkansas and then in a couple of weeks later florida. we love florida so. were going to do very well in ohio. were|beating the governor. its always nice to be beating the governor. and michiganthe whole thing. its going to be an amazing two months.|we might not even need the two months, folks, to be honest. so tonight we had 45 to 46%, and tomorrow youd hear them say, you know, if they could|just take the other candidates and add them up, and if you could add them up because you know the other candidates amount to 55%. so if they|couldthey keep forgetting that when people drop out, were going to get a lot of votes. you know they keep forgetting.|so i want to begin by thanking my boys, eric has been all over the place making speeches. hes getting better than me so im a little jealous.|and don went to _____, you were all over, right?|he loves the rifle stuff. this is serious rifle. this is serious nra, both of them, both of them. we love the second amendment folks. nobody loves it|more than us, so just remember that.|and corey and hope, the staff, the whole group, and charles and dan and what a group we have. i want to just thank a couple of friends of mine that are|here, the owner of this incredible hotel, mr. and mrs. phil ruffin, stand up. great guy. phil said, "donald,"like for the last three months|hes driving me crazy, he said"donald, i want to put $10 million into your campaign." i said, "phil i dont want your money. i dont|want to do it. im self funding." every time i see him. its hard for me to turn down money because thats what ive done in my whole|life. i grab and grab and grab. you know i get greedy. i want money, money.|ill tell you what were going to do, right? we get greedy, right? now were going to get greedy for the united states. were going to|grab and grab and grab. were going to bring in so much money and so much everything. were going to make america great again, folks, im|telling you folks, were going to make america great again.|and another great friend of mine, someone respected by everybody, a great friend of phil toomr. and mrs. steve wynn. stand up, steve. stand up. two|great people. steve is always calling. hes always got advice, right steve? "donald i think you should do this and that." his advice i like to|listen to, ill be honest. so phil and steve and families, we appreciate it. youve been great friends. thank you, thank you.|so this was very exciting tonight. but ill tell you it looks like we won by a lot evangelicals. i love evangelicals, and i have to tell you pastor|jeffress has been so incredible on television and elsewhere. he has been great. and as you know liberty universitydo we love liberty|university? huh? jerry falwell jr., an unbelievable guy, and he has been with us and with us from the beginning, and i want to thank jerry and his|family. its been amazing, the relationship. so we won the evangelicals.|we won with young. we won with old. we won with highly educated. we won with poorly educated. i love the poorly educated. were the smartest people,|were the most loyal people, and you know what im happy about? because ive been saying it for a long time. 46% were the hispanics46%,|no. 1 one with hispanics. im really happy about that.|so im very proud of you, this is an amazing night. i love the country, i love the country. were going in the wrong direction. were going|to keepas you know gitmo, were keeping that open, and were going to load it up with bad dudes. were going to load it up w a lot of|bad dudes out there. were going to have our borders nice and strong. were going to build the wall, you know that. were going to build the|wall. and i have a lot of respect from mexico, and you just heard we won hispanics. but let me tell you mexico is going to pay for the wall, right?|its going to happen. its going to happen. they know it. i know it. we all know it.|we have a tremendous deficit. we have a trade deficit with mexico. theyll pay for the wall. theyll be very happy about it. believe me.|ill talk to them. theyre going to be very, very thrilled. theyre going to be thrilled to be paying for the wall.|were going to be the smart people. were not going to be the people that get pushed around all over the place. were going to be the smart|people. youre going to be proud of your president, and youre going to be even prouder of your country, ok?|so tonight folks, this was a great evening. i love this place. i love this state. i love las vegas. i have spent and invested so much money over here.|trump international hoteli keep telling steve we have the best hotel in las vegas. hes fighting me all the time. but thats ok. but i just|want to say its a great state, and they have great people. and i was so proud. you know, i went to caucus. i was all over the place tonight. the|people are amazing. the enthusiasm, it was unbelievable to see.|the people of this country are absolutely amazing. i love you folks very much. remember: make america great again. were going to do it, and|its going to happen fast. thank you very much everybody. we love you. we love you.|wow. whoa. that is some group of people. thousands.|so nice, thank you very much. thats really nice. thank you. its great to be at trump tower. its great to be in a wonderful city, new|york. and its an honor to have everybody here. this is beyond anybodys expectations. theres been no crowd like this.|and, i can tell, some of the candidates, they went in. they didnt know the air-conditioner didnt work. they sweated like dogs.|they didnt know the room was too big, because they didnt have anybody there. how are they going to beat isis? i dont think its gonna|happen.|our country is in serious trouble. we dont have victories anymore. we used to have victories, but we dont have them. when was the last time|anybody saw us beating, lets say, china in a trade deal? they kill us. i beat china all the time. all the time.|when did we beat japan at anything? they send their cars over by the millions, and what do we do? when was the last time you saw a chevrolet in tokyo?|it doesnt exist, folks. they beat us all the time.|when do we beat mexico at the border? theyre laughing at us, at our stupidity. and now they are beating us economically. they are not our friend,|believe me. but theyre killing us economically.|the u.s. has become a dumping ground for everybody elses problems.|thank you. its true, and these are the best and the finest. when mexico sends its people, theyre not sending their best. theyre not|sending you. theyre not sending you. theyre sending people that have lots of problems, and theyre bringing those problems with us.|theyre bringing drugs. theyre bringing crime. theyre rapists. and some, i assume, are good people.|oh and it only makes common sense. it only makes common sense. theyre sending us not the right people.|its coming from more than mexico. its coming from all over south and latin america, and its coming probably probably from the|middle east. but we dont know. because we have no protection and we have no competence, we dont know whats happening. and its got to|stop and its got to stop fast.|islamic terrorism is eating up large portions of the middle east. theyve become rich. im in competition with them.|they just built a hotel in syria. can you believe this? they built a hotel. when i have to build a hotel, i pay interest. they dont have to pay|interest, because they took the oil that, when we left iraq, i said we shouldve taken.|so now isis has the oil, and what they dont have, iran has. and in 19 and i will tell you this, and i said it very strongly, years ago, i|said and i love the military, and i want to have the strongest military that weve ever had, and we need it more now than ever. but i said,|"dont hit iraq," because youre going to totally destabilize the middle east. iran is going to take over the middle east, iran and somebody|else will get the oil, and it turned out that iran is now taking over iraq. think of it. iran is taking over iraq, and theyre taking it over big|league.|we spent $2 trillion in iraq, $2 trillion. we lost thousands of lives, thousands in iraq. we have wounded soldiers, who i love, i love theyre|great all over the place, thousands and thousands of wounded soldiers.|and we have nothing. we cant even go there. we have nothing. and every time we give iraq equipment, the first time a bullet goes off in the air,|they leave it.|last week, i read 2,300 humvees these are big vehicles were left behind for the enemy. 2,000? you would say maybe two, maybe four? 2,300|sophisticated vehicles, they ran, and the enemy took them.|last quarter, it was just announced our gross domestic product a sign of strength, right? but not for us. it was below zero. whoever heard of|this? its never below zero.|our labor participation rate was the worst since 1978. but think of it, gdp below zero, horrible labor participation rate.|and our real unemployment is anywhere from 18 to 20 percent. dont believe the 5.6. dont believe it.|thats right. a lot of people up there cant get jobs. they cant get jobs, because there are no jobs, because china has our jobs and mexico|has our jobs. they all have jobs.|but the real number, the real number is anywhere from 18 to 19 and maybe even 21 percent, and nobody talks about it, because its a statistic|thats full of nonsense.|our enemies are getting stronger and stronger by the way, and we as a country are getting weaker. even our nuclear arsenal doesnt work.|it came out recently they have equipment that is 30 years old. they dont know if it worked. and i thought it was horrible when it was broadcast on|television, because boy, does that send signals to putin and all of the other people that look at us and they say, "that is a group of people, and that|is a nation that truly has no clue. they dont know what theyre doing. they dont know what theyre doing."|we have a disaster called the big lie: obamacare. obamacare.|yesterday, it came out that costs are going for people up 29, 39, 49, and even 55 percent, and deductibles are through the roof. you have to be hit by a|tractor, literally, a tractor, to use it, because the deductibles are so high, its virtually useless. its virtually useless. it is a|disaster.trump: and remember the $5 billion web site? $5 billion we spent on a web site, and to this day it doesnt work. a $5 billion web site.|if and when the vatican is attacked by isis, which as everyone knows is isiss ultimate trophy, i can promise you that the pope would have only|wished and prayed that donald trump would have been president because this would not have happened. isis would have been eradicated unlike what is|happening now with our all talk, no action politicians.|the mexican government and its leadership has made many disparaging remarks about me to the pope, because they want to continue to rip off the united|states, both on trade and at the border, and they understand i am totally wise to them. the pope only heard one side of the story - he didnt see|the crime, the drug trafficking and the negative economic impact the current policies have on the united states. he doesnt see how mexican|leadership is outsmarting president obama and our leadership in every aspect of negotiation.|for a religious leader to question a persons faith is disgraceful. i am proud to be a christian and as president i will not allow christianity to|be consistently attacked and weakened, unlike what is happening now, with our current president. no leader, especially a religious leader, should have|the right to question another mans religion or faith. they are using the pope as a pawn and they should be ashamed of themselves for doing so,|especially when so many lives are involved and when illegal immigration is so rampant.|i have so many web sites, i have them all over the place. i hire people, they do a web site. it costs me $3. $5 billion web site.|well, you need somebody, because politicians are all talk, no action. nothings gonna get done. they will not bring us believe me to the|promised land. they will not.|as an example, ive been on the circuit making speeches, and i hear my fellow republicans. and theyre wonderful people. i like them. they all|want me to support them. they dont know how to bring it about. they come up to my office. im meeting with three of them in the next week. and|they dont know "are you running? are you not running? could we have your support? what do we do? how do we do it?"|i like them. and i hear their speeches. and they dont talk jobs and they dont talk china. when was the last time you heard china is killing|us? theyre devaluing their currency to a level that you wouldnt believe. it makes it impossible for our companies to compete, impossible.|theyre killing us.|but you dont hear that from anybody else. you dont hear it from anybody else. and i watch the speeches.|thank you.|i watch the speeches of these people, and they say the sun will rise, the moon will set, all sorts of wonderful things will happen. and people are|saying, "whats going on? i just want a job. just get me a job. i dont need the rhetoric. i want a job."|and thats whats happening. and its going to get worse, because remember, obamacare really kicks in in 16, 2016. obama is going to be|out playing golf. he might be on one of my courses. i would invite him, i actually would say. i have the best courses in the world, so id say, you|what, if he wants to i have one right next to the white house, right on the potomac. if hed like to play, thats fine.|in fact, id love him to leave early and play, that would be a very good thing.|but obamacare kicks in in 2016. really big league. it is going to be amazingly destructive. doctors are quitting. i have a friend whos a doctor,|and he said to me the other day, "donald, i never saw anything like it. i have more accountants than i have nurses. its a disaster. my patients are|beside themselves. they had a plan that was good. they have no plan now."|we have to repeal obamacare, and it can be and and it can be replaced with something much better for everybody. let it be for everybody. but|much better and much less expensive for people and for the government. and we can do it.|so ive watched the politicians. ive dealt with them all my life. if you cant make a good deal with a politician, then theres|something wrong with you. youre certainly not very good. and thats what we have= representing us. they will never make america great again.|they dont even have a chance. theyre controlled fully theyre controlled fully by the lobbyists, by the donors, and by the special|interests, fully.|yes, they control them. hey, i have lobbyists. i have to tell you. i have lobbyists that can produce anything for me. theyre great. but you know|what? it wont happen. it wont happen. because we have to stop doing things for some people, but for this country, its destroying our|country. we have to stop, and it has to stop now.|we need a leader that can bring back our jobs, can bring back our manufacturing, can bring back our military, can take care of our vets. our vets have|been abandoned.|and we also need a cheerleader.|you know, when president obama was elected, i said, "well, the one thing, i think hell do well. i think hell be a great cheerleader for the|country. i think hed be a great spirit."|he was vibrant. he was young. i really thought that he would be a great cheerleader.|hes not a leader. thats true. youre right about that.|but he wasnt a cheerleader. hes actually a negative force. hes been a negative force. he wasnt a cheerleader; he was the opposite.|we need somebody that can take the brand of the united states and make it great again. its not great again.|we need we need somebody we need somebody that literally will take this country and make it great again. we can do that.|and, i will tell you, i love my life. i have a wonderful family. theyre saying, "dad, youre going to do something thats going to be so|tough."|you know, all of my life, ive heard that a truly successful person, a really, really successful person and even modestly successful cannot run for|public office. just cant happen. and yet thats the kind of mindset that you need to make this country great again.|so ladies and gentlemen |i am officially running|for president of the united states, and we are going to make our country great again.|it can happen. our country has tremendous potential. we have tremendous people.|we have people that arent working. we have people that have no incentive to work. but theyre going to have incentive to work, because the|greatest social program is a job. and theyll be proud, and theyll love it, and theyll make much more than they wouldve ever made,|and theyll be theyll be doing so well, and were going to be thriving as a country, thriving. it can happen.|i will be the greatest jobs president that god ever created. i tell you that.|ill bring back our jobs from china, from mexico, from japan, from so many places. ill bring back our jobs, and ill bring back our money.|right now, think of this: we owe china $1.3 trillion. we owe japan more than that. so they come in, they take our jobs, they take our money, and then|they loan us back the money, and we pay them in interest, and then the dollar goes up so their deals even better.|how stupid are our leaders? how stupid are these politicians to allow this to happen? how stupid are they?|im going to tell you thank you. im going to tell you a couple of stories about trade, because im totally against the trade bill for|a number of reasons.|number one, the people negotiating dont have a clue. our president doesnt have a clue. hes a bad negotiator.|hes the one that did bergdahl. we get bergdahl, they get five killer terrorists that everybody wanted over there.|we get bergdahl. we get a traitor. we get a no-good traitor, and they get the five people that they wanted for years, and those people are now back on|the battlefield trying to kill us. thats the negotiator we have.|take a look at the deal hes making with iran. he makes that deal, israel maybe wont exist very long. its a disaster, and we have to|protect israel. but |so we need people im a free trader. but the problem with free trade is you need really talented people to negotiate for you. if you dont|have talented people, if you dont have great leadership, if you dont have people that know business, not just a political hack that got the|job because he made a contribution to a campaign, which is the way all jobs, just about, are gotten, free trade terrible.|free trade can be wonderful if you have smart people, but we have people that are stupid. we have people that arent smart. and we have people that|are controlled by special interests. and its just not going to work.|so, heres a couple of stories happened recently. a friend of mine is a great manufacturer. and, you know, china comes over and they dump all their|stuff, and i buy it. i buy it, because, frankly, i have an obligation to buy it, because they devalue their currency so brilliantly, they just did it|recently, and nobody thought they could do it again.|but with all our problems with russia, with all our problems with everything everything, they got away with it again. and its impossible for|our people here to compete.|so i want to tell you this story. a friend of mine whos a great manufacturer, calls me up a few weeks ago. hes very upset. i said, "whats|your problem?"|he said, "you know, i make great product."|and i said, "i know. i know that because i buy the product."|he said, "i cant get it into china. they wont accept it. i sent a boat over and they actually sent it back. they talked about environmental,|they talked about all sorts of crap that had nothing to do with it."|i said, "oh, wait a minute, thats terrible. does anyone know this?"|he said, "yeah, they do it all the time with other people."|i said, "they send it back?"|"yeah. so i finally got it over there and they charged me a big tariff. theyre not supposed to be doing that. i told them."|now, they do charge you tariff on trucks, when we send trucks and other things over there.|ask boeing. they wanted boeings secrets. they wanted their patents and all their secrets before they agreed to buy planes from boeing.|hey, im not saying theyre stupid. i like china. i sell apartments for i just sold an apartment for $15 million to somebody from china.|am i supposed to dislike them? i own a big chunk of the bank of america building at 1290 avenue of the americas, that i got from china in a war. very|valuable.|i love china. the biggest bank in the world is from china. you know where their united states headquarters is located? in this building, in trump tower.|i love china. people say, "oh, you dont like china?"|no, i love them. but their leaders are much smarter than our leaders, and we cant sustain ourself with that. theres too much its|like its like take the new england patriots and tom brady and have them play your high school football team. thats the difference|between chinas leaders and our leaders.|they are ripping us. we are rebuilding china. were rebuilding many countries. china, you go there now, roads, bridges, schools, you never saw|anything like it. they have bridges that make the george washington bridge look like small potatoes. and theyre all over the place.|we have all the cards, but we dont know how to use them. we dont even know that we have the cards, because our leaders dont understand|the game. we could turn off that spigot by charging them tax until they behave properly.|now theyre going militarily. theyre building a military island in the middle of the south china sea. a military island. now, our country could|never do that because wed have to get environmental clearance, and the environmentalist wouldnt let our country we would never build in|an ocean. they built it in about one year, this massive military port.|theyre building up their military to a point that is very scary. you have a problem with isis. you have a bigger problem with china.|and, in my opinion, the new china, believe it or not, in terms of trade, is mexico.|so this man tells me about the manufacturing. i say, "thats a terrible story. i hate to hear it."|but i have another one, ford.|so mexico takes a company, a car company that was going to build in tennessee, rips it out. everybody thought the deal was dead. reported it in the wall|street journal recently. everybody thought it was a done deal. its going in and thats going to be it, going into tennessee. great state, great|people.trump: all of a sudden, at the last moment, this big car manufacturer, foreign, announces theyre not going to tennessee. theyre gonna|spend their $1 billion in mexico instead. not good.|now, ford announces a few weeks ago that ford is going to build a $2.5 billion car and truck and parts manufacturing plant in mexico. $2.5 billion,|its going to be one of the largest in the world. ford. good company.|so i announced that im running for president. i would|one of the early things i would do, probably before i even got in and i wouldnt even use you know, i have i know the smartest|negotiators in the world. i know the good ones. i know the bad ones. i know the overrated ones.|you get a lot of them that are overrated. theyre not good. they think they are. they get good stories, because the newspapers get buffaloed .|but theyre not good.|but i know the negotiators in the world, and i put them one for each country. believe me, folks. we will do very, very well, very, very well.|but i wouldnt even waste my time with this one. i would call up the head of ford, who i know. if i was president, id say, "congratulations. i|understand that youre building a nice $2.5 billion car factory in mexico and that youre going to take your cars and sell them to the united|states zero tax, just flow them across the border."|and you say to yourself, "how does that help us," right? "how does that help us? where is that good"? its not.|so i would say, "congratulations. thats the good news. let me give you the bad news. every car and every truck and every part manufactured in this|plant that comes across the border, were going to charge you a 35-percent tax, and that tax is going to be paid simultaneously with the|transaction, and thats it.|now, heres what is going to happen. if its not me in the position, its one of these politicians that were running against, you know,|the 400 people that were . and heres whats going to happen. theyre not so stupid. they know its not a good thing,|and they may even be upset by it. but then theyre going to get a call from the donors or probably from the lobbyist for ford and say, "you|cant do that to ford, because ford takes care of me and i take care of you, and you cant do that to ford."|and guess what? no problem. theyre going to build in mexico. theyre going to take away thousands of jobs. its very bad for us.|so under president trump, heres what would happen:|the head of ford will call me back, i would say within an hour after i told them the bad news. but it could be hed want to be cool, and hell|wait until the next day. you know, they want to be a little cool.|and hell say, "please, please, please." hell beg for a little while, and ill say, "no interest." then hell call all sorts of|political people, and ill say, "sorry, fellas. no interest," because i dont need anybodys money. its nice. i dont need|anybodys money.|im using my own money. im not using the lobbyists. im not using donors. i dont care. im really rich. i .|and by the way, im not even saying that in a thats the kind of mindset, thats the kind of thinking you need for this country.|so because we got to make the country rich.|it sounds crass. somebody said, "oh, thats crass." its not crass.|we got $18 trillion in debt. we got nothing but problems.|we got a military that needs equipment all over the place. we got nuclear weapons that are obsolete.|weve got nothing. weve got social security thats going to be destroyed if somebody like me doesnt bring money into the country. all|these other people want to cut the hell out of it. im not going to cut it at all; im going to bring money in, and were going to save it.|but heres whats going to happen:|after im called by 30 friends of mine who contributed to different campaigns, after im called by all of the special interests and by the |the donors and by the lobbyists and they have zero chance at convincing me, zero ill get a call the next day from the head of ford.|hell say. "please reconsider," ill say no.|hell say, "mr. president, weve decided to move the plant back to the united states, and were not going to build it in mexico." thats|it. they have no choice. they have no choice.|there are hundreds of things like that. ill give you another example.trump: saudi arabia, they make $1 billion a day. $1 billion a day. i love the|saudis. many are in this building. they make a billion dollars a day. whenever they have problems, we send over the ships. we say "were gonna|protect." what are we doing? theyve got nothing but money.|if the right person asked them, theyd pay a fortune. they wouldnt be there except for us.|and believe me, you look at the border with yemen. you remember obama a year ago, yemen was a great victory. two weeks later, the place was blown up.|everybody got out and they kept our equipment.|they always keep our equipment. we ought to send used equipment, right? they always keep our equipment. we ought to send some real junk, because,|frankly, it would be we ought to send our surplus. were always losing this gorgeous brand-new stuff.|but look at that border with saudi arabia. do you really think that these people are interested in yemen? saudi arabia without us is gone. they;re gone.|and im the one that made all of the right predictions about iraq. you know, all of these politicians that im running against now |its so nice to say im running as opposed to if i run, if i run. im running.|but all of these politicians that im running against now, theyre trying to disassociate. i mean, you looked at bush, it took him five days to|answer the question on iraq. he couldnt answer the question. he didnt know. i said, "is he intelligent?"|then i looked at rubio. he was unable to answer the question, is iraq a good thing or bad thing? he didnt know. he couldnt answer the|question.|how are these people gonna lead us? how are we gonna how are we gonna go back and make it great again? we cant. they dont have a clue.|they cant lead us. they cant. they cant even answer simple questions. it was terrible.|but saudi arabia is in big, big trouble. now, thanks to fracking and other things, the oil is all over the place. and i used to say it, there are ships|at sea, and this was during the worst crisis, that were loaded up with oil, and the cartel kept the price up, because, again, they were smarter than our|leaders. they were smarter than our leaders.|there is so much wealth out there that can make our country so rich again, and therefore make it great again. because we need money. were dying.|were dying. we need money. we have to do it. and we need the right people.|so ford will come back. theyll all come back. and i will say this, this is going to be an election, in my opinion, thats based on competence.|so the reporter said to me the other day, "but, mr. trump, youre not a nice person. how can you get people to vote for you?"|i said, "i dont know." i said, "i think that number one, i am a nice person. i give a lot of money away to charities and other things. i think|im actually a very nice person."|but, i said, "this is going to be an election thats based on competence, because people are tired of these nice people. and theyre tired of|being ripped off by everybody in the world. and theyre tired of spending more money on education than any nation in the world per capita, than any|nation in the world, and we are 26th in the world, 25 countries are better than us in education. and some of them are like third world countries. but|were becoming a third word country, because of our infrastructure, our airports, our roads, everything. so one of the things i did, and i said, you|know what ill do. ill do it. because a lot of people said, "hell never run. number one, he wont want to give up his lifestyle."|theyre right about that, but im doing it.|number two, im a private company, so nobody knows what im worth. and the one thing is that when you run, you have to announce and certify to|all sorts of governmental authorities your net worth.|so i said, "thats ok." im proud of my net worth. ive done an amazing job.|i started off thank you i started off in a small office with my father in brooklyn and queens, and my father said and i love my|father. i learned so much. he was a great negotiator. i learned so much just sitting at his feet playing with blocks listening to him negotiate with|subcontractors. but i learned a lot.|but he used to say, "donald, dont go into manhattan. thats the big leagues. we dont know anything about that. dont do it."|i said, "i gotta go into manhattan. i gotta build those big buildings. i gotta do it, dad. ive gotta do it."|and after four or five years in brooklyn, i ventured into manhattan and did a lot of great deals the grand hyatt hotel. i was responsible for the|convention center on the west side. i did a lot of great deals, and i did them early and young. and now im building all over the world, and i love|what im doing.|but they all said, a lot of the pundits on television, "well, donald will never run, and one of the main reasons is hes private and hes|probably not as successful as everybody thinks."|so i said to myself, you know, nobodys ever going to know unless i run, because im really proud of my success. i really am.|ive employed ive employed tens of thousands of people over my lifetime. that means medical. that means education. that means everything.|so a large accounting firm and my accountants have been working for months, because its big and complex, and theyve put together a statement,|a financial statement, just a summary. but everything will be filed eventually with the government, and we dont extensions or anything. well|be filing it right on time. we dont need anything.|and it was even reported incorrectly yesterday, because they said, "he had assets of $9 billion." so i said , "no, thats the wrong number.|thats the wrong number. not assets."|so they put together this. and before i say it, i have to say this. i made it the old-fashioned way. its real estate. you know, its real|estate.|its labor, and its unions good and some bad and lots of people that arent in unions, and its all over the place and building all|over the world.|and i have assets big accounting firm, one of the most highly respected 9 billion 240 million dollars.|and i have liabilities of about $500 million . thats long-term debt, very low interest rates.|in fact, one of the big banks came to me and said, "donald, you dont have enough borrowings. could we loan you $4 billion"? i said, "i dont|need it. i dont want it. and ive been there. i dont want it."|but in two seconds, they give me whatever i wanted. so i have a total net worth, and now with the increase, itll be well-over $10 billion. but|here, a total net worth of net worth, not assets, not a net worth, after all debt, after all expenses, the greatest assets trump|tower, 1290 avenue of the americas, bank of america building in san francisco, 40 wall street, sometimes referred to as the trump building right|opposite the new york many other places all over the world.|so the total is $8,737,540,00.|now im not doing that |im not doing that to brag, because you know what? i dont have to brag. i dont have to, believe it or not.|im doing that to say that thats the kind of thinking our country needs. we need that thinking. we have the opposite thinking.|we have losers. we have losers. we have people that dont have it. we have people that are morally corrupt. we have people that are selling this|country down the drain.|so i put together this statement, and the only reason im telling you about it today is because we really do have to get going, because if we have|another three or four years you know, were at $8 trillion now. were soon going to be at $20 trillion.trump: according to the economists|who im not big believers in, but, nevertheless, this is what theyre saying that $24 trillion were very close |thats the point of no return. $24 trillion. we will be there soon. thats when we become greece. thats when we become a country thats|unsalvageable. and were gonna be there very soon. were gonna be there very soon.|i will immediately terminate president obamas illegal executive order on immigration, immediately.|fully support and back up the second amendment.|now, its very interesting. today i heard it. through stupidity, in a very, very hard core prison, interestingly named clinton, two vicious|murderers, two vicious people escaped, and nobody knows where they are. and a woman was on television this morning, and she said, "you know, mr. trump,"|and she was telling other people, and i actually called her, and she said, "you know, mr. trump, i always was against guns. i didnt want guns. and|now since this happened" its up in the prison area "my husband and i are finally in agreement, because he wanted the guns. we now have|a gun on every table. were ready to start shooting."|i said, "very interesting."|so protect the second amendment.|end end common core. common core should it is a disaster. bush is totally in favor of common core. i dont see how he can possibly get|the nomination. hes weak on immigration. hes in favor of common core. how the hell can you vote for this guy? you just cant do it. we|have to end education has to be local.|rebuild the countrys infrastructure.|nobody can do that like me. believe me. it will be done on time, on budget, way below cost, way below what anyone ever thought.|i look at the roads being built all over the country, and i say i can build those things for one-third. what they do is unbelievable, how bad.|you know, were building on pennsylvania avenue, the old post office, were converting it into one of the worlds great hotels. its|gonna be the best hotel in washington, d.c. we got it from the general services administration in washington. the obama administration. we got it. it|was the most highly sought after or one of them, but i think the most highly sought after project in the history of general services. we got it.|people were shocked, trump got it.|well, i got it for two reasons. number one, were really good. number two, we had a really good plan. and ill add in the third, we had a great|financial statement. because the general services, who are terrific people, by the way, and talented people, they wanted to do a great job. and they|wanted to make sure it got built.|so we have to rebuild our infrastructure, our bridges, our roadways, our airports. you come into la guardia airport, its like were in a third|world country. you look at the patches and the 40-year-old floor. they throw down asphalt, and they throw.|you look at these airports, we are like a third world country. and i come in from china and i come in from qatar and i come in from different places,|and they have the most incredible airports in the world. you come to back to this country and you have lax, disaster. you have all of these disastrous|airports. we have to rebuild our infrastructure.|save medicare, medicaid and social security without cuts. have to do it.|get rid of the fraud. get rid of the waste and abuse, but save it. people have been paying it for years. and now many of these candidates want to cut|it. you save it by making the united states, by making us rich again, by taking back all of the money thats being lost.|renegotiate our foreign trade deals.|reduce our $18 trillion in debt, because, believe me, were in a bubble. we have artificially low interest rates. we have a stock market that,|frankly, has been good to me, but i still hate to see whats happening. we have a stock market that is so bloated.|be careful of a bubble because what youve seen in the past might be small potatoes compared to what happens. so be very, very careful.|and strengthen our military and take care of our vets. so, so important.|chris, thank you very much. i appreciate it.|this has been an amazing evening. already, weve won five major states and it looks like we could win six or seven or eight or nine.|its really been its really been great.|i want to congratulation ted on the winning of texas. he worked hard on he i know how hard he worked actually, and so i congratulate ted cruz on|that win. that was an excellent win.|were going to make america great again, folks. were going to make it great again.|and, you know, i watched hillarys speech and shes talking about wages have been poor and everythings poor and everythings doing|badly, but were going to make it shes been there for so long. i mean, if she hasnt straightened it out by now, shes not going|to straighten it out in the next four years. its just going to become worse and worse. she wants to make america whole again and im trying to|figure out what is that all about. make america great again is going to be much better than making america whole again.|so i just want to say that this was an exciting evening. its so great to be in florida. its so great to be at mar-a-lago with friends and the|press and the media and everybody.|i know it was a very tough night for marco rubio. he had a tough night but he worked hard. he spent a lot of money. he is a lightweight, as ive|said many times before. but you know what? were going to go to florida, were going to spend so much time in florida. weve got about a|20-point lead. i know that a lot of groups, a lot of the special interests and a lot of the lobbyists and the people that want to have their little|senator do exactly as they want, theyre going to put $20 million or $25 million into it over the next two weeks, from what just came over the|wires. and frankly, i think thats fine. as far as im concerned, its fine. and if he wins, theyll have totally controlled total|control. but hes not going anywhere anyway, but well see what happens. but were going to spend a lot of time in florida.|the virginia one was just a great win because its a place that is just spectacular and a place that we have big investments in, as we have in|florida. remember, we have thousands of employees in florida, all along miami, doral and mar-a-lago and so many other places. and its been an|amazing place to invest. its been amazing to have so many wonderful employees, so many of whom are here tonight, really urging us on.|and you know, i have thousands of employees all over the country, actually, all over the world but for purposes of tonight, well just say all over|the country. and its been just so beautiful to watch this company grow and to watch it grow so strongly.|recent articles came out talking about how great a company we built, and now we want to put that same ability into doing something for our nation. i|mean, our nation is in serious trouble. were being chilled on trade, absolutely destroyed. china is just taking advantage of us. i have nothing|against china. i have great respect for china, but their leaders are too smart for our leaders. our leaders dont have a clue and the trade deficits|at $400 billion and $500 are too much. no country can sustain that kind of trade deficit. it wont be that way for long. we have the greatest|business leaders in the world on my team already and, believe me, were going to redo those trade deals and its going to be a thing of beauty.|you look at countries like mexico, where theyre killing us on the border, absolutely destroying us on the border. theyre destroying us in|terms of economic development. companies like carrier air conditioner just moving into mexico. ford, moving into mexico. nabisco, closing up shop in|chicago and moving into mexico. we have to stop it, folks. i know how to stop it. were going to create jobs. were going to create jobs like|youve never seen.|were going to lower taxes. i have a plan that larry kudlow and so many others think is the best plan theyve seen. were going to lower|taxes substantially for the middle class. the middle class has been forgotten in our country. it really helped and really probably was the predominant|factor in making our country into a country that we all love so much and were all so proud of, but weve forgotten the middle class. so|were going to lower taxes.|were lowering taxes on business. you look at all the companies that are moving out. when you see pfizer moving to ireland and you see so many other|companies, constantly now theyre leaving. they used to move from new york to florida, or theyd move from new jersey to someplace else, chris.|but now theyre moving from here not that many people are leaving new jersey. but chris understands the problem, fully understands. now|theyre leaving from places that they used to move to into other parts of the world. we cant let that happen.|weve lost our manufacturing jobs. weve lost our manufacturing. millions and millions of jobs, thousands and thousands and thousands of plants,|manufacturing plants, warehouses. i mean, we are losing so much. we cant let it happen.|i tell the story often about a friend of mine who is in the excavation business and he always orders caterpillar. and recently, he ordered komatsu|tractors from japan because theyve cut the yen. theyve devalued the yen to such an extent that it was virtually impossible for caterpillar to|compete. and i dont want that to happen. thats not going to happen. they shouldnt be allowed to do it.|we have tremendous power over everybody because we are really the source. we have great, great power. the problem is we have politicians who truly,|truly, truly dont know what theyre doing. so were going to work very, very hard.|im so honored by this evening. if you wouldve told me on june 16th, when i was with my wife, melania, and we came down the escalator in trump|tower and it looked, literally, well, a little bit like this. you have a lot of cameras here tonight.|it looked, literally, like the academy awards. i never saw so many cameras in my life. and it takes courage to run. ill tell you what, it takes a|lot of courage to run for president. ive never done this before. ive been a job-producer. ive done a lot of things but this is something|ive never done, but i felt we had to do it. when you look at the incompetence of the iran deal, where we give $150 billion, we get absolutely|nothing. when you look at all of the problems our country has and you look at our military, which is really being depleted rapidly, depleted. were|going to make our military bigger and better and stronger than ever before, and nobody, nobody, nobody is going to mess with us, folks, nobody.|so its just an amazing honor to have you with me tonight. and if you want, press, i think we told you before wed be okay if you want to ask a|few questions.|yes, go ahead.|well, they can always do that and then theyll then theyll just lose everything and that would be the that would be the work of a|loser.|but let me just explain something. if youve seen whats happened, whether you go to south carolina, where i had a huge victory, where we had a|tremendous victory in new hampshire, tremendous in nevada, you look at whats happened, and tonight, of course, is the best of all. i mean, right|now, theyre projected i guess six, but we could be seven, eight, nine, and major states. its georgia, alabama, massachusetts|tennessee, virginia. and you know, these are amazing states and were going to probably get a lot more. in fact, were projected to have|some pretty good additional numbers.|but i will say this. look, we have expanded the republican party. when you look at whats happened in south carolina and you see the kind of numbers|that we got, in terms of extra people coming in. they came from the democratic party, or the democrat party, and theyre democrats and theyre|long-time democrats and they were never going to switch and they all switched. and they were independents. and weve actually expanded the party.|look at the number of votes we had in that area, as an example. four years ago, they had 390,000 or so votes. we doubled it. we were almost 800,000.|whereas the democrats went down. theres much less enthusiasm for the democrats.|so i look, im a unifier. i know people are going to find that a little bit hard to believe, but believe me, i am a unifier. once we get all|of this finished, im going to go after one person, thats hillary clinton, on the assumption shes allowed to run, which is a big|assumption. i dont know that shes going to be allowed to run. and i think thats, frankly, going to be an easy race. you see the polls. i|beat hillary in many polls. i know one thing. i dont think marco is going to be able to beat her. i dont think in all fairness, i think|teds going to have a very hard time. but ted at least has a shot because at least hes won a little bit.|so i just tell you this. we are going to be a much finer party, a much were going to be a unified party, i mean, to be honest with you. and|we are going to be a much bigger party, and you can see that happening. were going to be a much bigger party. our party is expanding. and all you|have to do it take a look at the primary states where ive won and just look weve gone from x number to a much larger number. that|hasnt happened to the republican party in many, many decades. so i think were going to be more inclusive. i think were going to be more|unified and i think were going to be a much bigger party, and i think were going to win in november. ok, yeah?|im just doing whats right. look, planned parenthood has done very good work for some for many, many for millions of women. and|ill say it and i know a lot of the so-called conservatives, they say thats really because im a conservative, but im a|common-sense conservative. but millions of women have been helped by planned parenthood. but were not going to allow and were not going to|fund as long as you have the abortion going on at planned parenthood, and we understand that and ive said it loud and clear. but and|well see what happens. but planned parenthood millions of people and ive had thousands of letters from women that have been|helped. and this wasnt a setup. this was people writing letters. im going to be really good for women. im going to be good for|womens health issues. its very important to me, very important to me.|and maybe thats not a perfect conservative view, but i can tell you one thing. im more conservative than anybody on the military, on taking|care of our vets, on the border, on the wall, on getting rid of obamacare and coming up with something much, much better, and certainly, getting rid of|common core and bringing education to a local level so that youre going to have good education for our children who are being absolutely starved|for proper education.|so sarah, i mean, you know, you can call it what you want, but i am a truth-teller and i will tell the truth, ok?|yeah, go ahead, finish it.|i feel awfully good. i mean, im watching your people im watching your people on and im going to be very nice, im going|to be very nice im watching your people on cnn and im watching the fox people and im watching the msnbc people, too, ok? see?|im becoming diplomatic. and they are certainly being very nice to me tonight. i mean, you know, theyre being very strong. and they are,|theyre declaring marco rubio the big loser of the night, which is true. he didnt win anything. he hasnt won anything, period.|and by the way, and i have to tell you and he was very, very nasty. ive never heard a person get up and speak on an evening like this and be|so nasty, but hes got a right to be nasty. he hasnt won anything and hes not going to win very much.|but i do congratulate ted because i know how hard ted worked on texas and its a big get. now i also did very well in texas. i came in second. and|one of the things my son, eric, told me, which i didnt even realize, is that not only did i win most of the states and some are coming in and|im expected to win them but i came in second i came in no worse than second. so it wasnt like i won and then i disappeared. the|worst i had was a second. so im very, very honored by the turnout, ok?|yes, go ahead.|right. oh, theyre totally wrong. look, i disavowed. i disavowed when i in fact, chris is my number one chris gave me the honor of|joining the campaign. he called me. he said, "donald, what youve got is a movement." we spoke today in kentucky. youve never seen a crowd like|that. that had to be 20,000 people inside this massive convention center and it was incredible. and every place were speaking, if we have 10,000|people its like a small group. we had 35,000 people the other day in alabama. and when chris called, he said this is a movement; this is something|like ive never seen. and in all fairness to the press, a lot of the press have said the same thing. theyve never seen whats happening|right now. theyve never seen anything like it. and im just honored by it.|now, when chris joined, we had a news conference and they asked me the exact same question. i said i disavow. now, right after the program that|were talking about and i thought it was clear, but you know, were talking about groups, groups, groups. i do have to know the name of|the group because, who knows? i mean, they have to give me the name of the group. but right after, when i reviewed it, i put out a tweet and i put out|on facebook that i totally disavow. now everybody knew i did that but the press refused to look at that. it was right after. and i disavowed then; i|disavowed today on abc with george stephanopoulos, i disavowed again. i mean, how many times are you supposed to disavow? but i disavow and hopefully|its the final time i have to do it. but if you look at facebook and if you look at twitter, right after the show i put out a statement because i|want everybody to be sure.|yes, go ahead.|no, its not, but there is always going to be some negotiation, and its going to be a good negotiation, not a bad negotiation. its going|to be a negotiation where well start at certain levels and hopefully i will make a great deal, and lots of great deals, for the american people.|so you know, look, you cant go around just signing our little notices that the president signs all the time, executive orders, hes done|executive order, executive order. its almost like, i dont even know. does he ever go a deal with congress anymore? does he ever speak to the|senate? does he ever speak with congressmen and get them into a room and get things done?|you know, a good example of this, in all fairness, is something that i is very, very important to me; corporate inversion. carl icahn, whos a|friend of mine who endorsed me, great businessman, he it bothers him so much he calls me about it all the time, where were losing companies.|and were losing for two reasons. were losing for a lot of reasons but the taxes are too high. we have the highest were the highest|taxed nation in the world.|and very importantly, they have trillions, for companies, trillions of dollars outside of this country. the democrats agree it should be brought back|in. the republicans agree it should be brought back in. everybody agrees it should be brought back in. i could sit in a room or the oval office|for a period of, literally, a half hour and i really believe i could get everybody every single you know, its one thing they|dont agree on health care or they dont agree on common core or they dont agree on other things and theyll fight. heres|something every single i mean, almost everybody agrees. these trillions and trillions of dollars should be brought into the country.|the president cant make a deal. the reason is he doesnt know how to make a deal, probably doesnt work at it, probably doesnt care,|but youre talking about tremendous number of tremendous amounts of money. so when you have something that everybody wants and you cant|make a deal, theres something going on thats really wrong. and what it means is you have the wrong leader.|well, look, everything we are going to have a wall. i can tell you we are going to have a wall. i watched the ex-president of mexico, the|arrogance of this man. and i get along great with hispanics. you saw in nevada, i won in the poll, the hispanic vote. i have thousands of people that|work for me right now that are hispanic. ive had thousands and thousands over my lifetime. these are great people. the mexican leaders are too|smart for our leaders and you saw it. vincente fox, first of all, he used a word that you should never have if i ever used that word you folks|wouldve never, ever, ever let me get away with it. nobody even talked about the word he used and this is the ultimate word. but he was angry at the|concept of somebody saying that they were going to pay for the wall. mexico is going to pay for the wall. we have a trade deficit with mexico of $58|billion a year $58 billion. the wall is going to cost $10 billion. its so easy. ive had these guys that im on the stage with go you|dont really mean mexico is going to pay for the wall. one as sure as youre standing there, 100 percent, mexicos going to pay, 100|percent.|and the reason is im a businessman. i know how to do this. politicians are all talk, no action. its not going to except for chris|christie, of course. its not look, its not going to happen. its not going to happen with these people.|so when you think of it and then they say youll never be able to build a wall. well, its 2,000 miles but we really need 1,000 miles. the|great wall of china, built 2,000 years ago, is 13,000 miles, folks, and they didnt have caterpillar tractors, because i only want to use|caterpillar, if you want to know the truth, or john deere. i buy a lot of equipment from john deere. i love john deere, too. but they didnt have|tractors. they didnt have cranes. they didnt have excavation equipment. the wall is 13,000 miles long. we need 1,000 miles and we have all of|the materials. we can do that so beautifully. and this is going to be a serious wall. this is going to be high wall. this is going to be a very serious|wall.|were going to stop drugs from coming into new hampshire. you know, when i won new hampshire, those people were so incredible to me. and when you|go, you wouldnt believe it because its so bucolic, so beautiful. you look at the fields and you look at everything, its so beautiful. and|yet, you go to a meeting in new hampshire, their number one problem, their number one problem is heroine. the heroine is pouring in and they have so|many of their young people and other people addicted. and i told them im going to stop it. im going to stop it. were going to have a|strong border, and i mean strong.|and by the way, speaking of people, people are going to come in and theyre going to come into this country, but theyre going to come in|legally, ok?|ive got to find out whats going on. weve got a big problem. we have a big, big problem. ill tell it like it is. we have a big, big|problem. weve got to figure it out. were going to figure it out. radical islamic terrorism, big, big problem, not only for us. you take a look|at germany, you take a look at sweden, you take a look at brussels. you look at some of these places, its like a disaster. and were not going|to allow people to come into our country who we have no idea who they are, we have no idea where they come from, they have no paperwork, theyre|young and theyre strong. you look at that migration line; theyre young, theyre strong, theyre powerful. and you say why arent|they back fighting for their country?|now, with all of that being said, i feel strongly i have a bigger heart than anybody. were going to build a safe zone. its going to be|in syria. and im going to get the gulf states, who have more money than anybody weve got to loosen up their wallets a little bit.|were going to get but theyre not accepting people. were going to get wait, wait, wait. were going to get the gulf states|to pay for it because they should.|oh, were going to bring them back. were going to bring them back. look, im telling you you know how im going to bring them|back? first of all, were going to do great with the african- americans, and you see that in the polls where i had in one poll where im 25|percent. and one of the commentators, who i think is standing right at the back of the room in the corner, said, you know, if donald trump gets 25|percent of the african-american vote, this election is over. you watch. and the reason im getting that and im going to do great with the|hispanics. im going to do great with virtually every group. the reason is im going to bring jobs back. im going to get apple to start|making their computers and their iphones on our land, not in china. how does it help us when they make it in china?|well, look, i always liked marco until about a week ago when he decided to go hostile. he decided to become don rickles, ok? but don rickles has a lot|more talent. honestly, i did, i always liked him but he became you know, somebody told him youre losing very badly. the only way you can|possibly win, take the hail mary, they called it a hail mary, the folks in the back, and go hostile. its hurt him. in fact, one of the newscasts|tonight said he went down 15 or 20 percent. its really hurt him.|but look, im not going to tell him what to do. im not going to tell anybody what to do. you have to run. he had a bad night, according to cnn,|fox. i watched their broadcasts. they say the loser of the night was marco rubio and its true. he didnt win anything. he hasnt won. i|mean, at least you can say that ted has won something, and you know, marco has not won. youve got to be able to win. you cant talk. you know,|these politicians, all talk, no action. youve got to be able to win something. he hasnt won anything. and he actually hasnt come very|close. so well see what happens.|yes, go ahead.|im going to be a good president for the world but we have a country thats in big trouble. our infrastructure is going to hell, our roads, our|highways, our schools, our hospitals, our airports. i go throughout the world. i mean, you go to qatar, you go to some people say qatar, but you|go to qatar, you go to any of so many places. you go to different places in china, different places in asia, different places in the middle east,|you look at some of the airports they have. you look at the roadways they have. you look at the transportation systems they have and the trains they|have. were like a third world country.|so i am going to be very good for the world. im going to get along with the world. youre going to be very proud of me. even you will be very|proud of me as a president. but we have to rebuild our country. our country is going to hell and people dont understand that.|and hillary clinton doesnt have a clue. she cant do that. shes talking about i mean, one of the things that has really bothered me,|i think one of the reasons i have such great support, is that people, you take a look, people in the middle-income groups are making less money today|less money than they made 12 years ago. and in her speech, she just said theyre making less money. well, shes been there with obama for|a long period of time. why hasnt she done anything about it? practically everything that she was complaining about shes picked up what i|say. the difference is shes been there for a long period of time. why havent they done anything about it?|then you look at her record as secretary of state. its abysmal. you look at whats going on with syria. you look at whats going on with|everything. its a disaster.|so were going to have an interesting period of time. i dont know that shes going to be allowed to run. what she did is a criminal act. if|shes allowed to run i would be very, very surprised. but if shes allowed to run, honestly, itll be a sad day for this country because|what she did was wrong. and what she did let me just tell you, what she did was wrong and other people have done far less than her|and they paid a very, very big price.|ok, one or two more questions. yeah, go ahead, jeremy|at this moment, absolutely not, no. we either have a country or we dont. we have a country, or we dont. we have borders or we dont have|borders. and at this moment, the answer is absolutely not.|well, look, i dont expect i have a lot of respect for reince and for the group and i like the rnc and i dont know that ive been|treated fairly or not. i really dont know. i cant tell you that. but i can tell you that i do respect them.|what i really have is a great number of people. i have millions and millions of people. and when i was watching this broadcast just a little while ago,|before i came in here because i wanted to see exactly where we were before i started speaking, i was amazed at the kind of numbers. the republicans have|tremendous energy. the democrats dont. they dont have any energy. their numbers are down. our number are through the roof. and people are|making the statements theyve never seen, in modern times, a party that was so energized.|i think if somebody is doing as well as im doing and im not just speaking for myself, whether it be me or anybody else but if|im going to win five ive already won five, but maybe it could be six, seven, eight, nine. it could be nine, could win nine states|tonight. if im going to win all of these states with tremendous numbers, and if im going to come in the worst is second in the two or three|that i might not win, i think, you know, were a democracy. i think its awfully hard to say thats not the person we want to lead the|party, right? you know, its very hard.|but i really think that i think its a great question, david, because i really think that one of the biggest things that everybody is seeing|happening, and everybody, is the republican party has become more dynamic. its become more diverse. were taking from the democrats. were|taking from the independents. we have a lot more people. we have a lot more people. i mean, take a look at south carolina. look at the numbers. look at|the numbers from four years ago when nobody even wanted to waste their time and vote. and then you look at i was there and you had lines that went|a mile long. and it was virtually more than doubled.|so we have a very, very dynamic party and i think were going to be able to unify the party. i hope to be able to get along with everybody. i|dont know paul ryan well but i hope to be able to get along with him. i do know mitch mcconnell a little bit but i hope to be able to get along|with him. but remember this. i have millions and millions and millions of people. this isnt like its a close match. i mean, its only too|bad that winner didnt take all, because if winner took all, this thing is over. were just having a celebration.|you know, were having a celebration.|so anyway, i would like to look, i just want to end by thanking everybody. this has been an amazing period in my life. my wife just called and|ivanka, as you know, is going to be having a baby very soon and shes a special person and its going to be great and we look forward to that.|shes back in new york. she wanted to be here. they all wanted to be here but theyre with ivanka now and that could be, certainly, within the|next week. but this this has been an amazing period of time. its been amazing for me, even from an educational standpoint. and i think, honestly,|weve done something that almost nobody thought could be done and im very proud of it.|and i just want to leave you with this. i am a unifier. i would love to see the republican party and everybody get together and unify. and when we|unify, theres nobody, nobody thats going to beat us.|thank you very much everybody. thank you.|thank you very much. thank you.|this is so so incredible.|we we have had, no matter where we go you know, its a movement, folks. this is a movement.|no matter where we go, its amazing. we go to dallas. we go to oklahoma. we go all over. we went to, the other night, iowa packed. every place|new hampshire, packed. every place we go to, its like this. its amazing. and just great, great people.|and they actually had to tell over 3,000 people, "go home." well come back. well do another one. but they had to go home. would you like to|leave and well let them come in? no?|i dont think so, but we they turned away a lot of people, which is too bad, actually. so maybe next time. i dont know. i think this is|the largest room. i know its a record for the room.|you know, it has to be a record because every inch of the room is taken with people, and theyre standing. theyre not sitting. so thats|great. i love we love setting records. we want the country to set records, right?|so, you know, i i do this, and i love to do it. and i talk about our success because thats ultimately what its all about. i think|were going to do fantastically well in iowa. i really think were going to do great there. and i could say, "oh, gee, if we came in the top|four of five." im not im looking to win everything. we want to run the table. we want to run it, because that sends a signal.|and, you know, weve been a little bit we had to respond to hillary. she came out with that she came out remember, she wrote |she said, "hes got a hes demonstrated a penchant" i demonstrated "a penchant for sexism." can you believe it? me? nobody|respects women more than donald trump. that i can tell you.|and, you know, when she said that, i had no choice, because i didnt start it. i had no choice. and i did have to mention her husbands|situation. ok?|and that is now the biggest story on television by a factor of 10. so, we have to do it. you cant let people push you around. you cant let|people tell lies. you cant do it.|you know, its interesting. one of the polls came out from cnbc and they said that if its trump against hillary in the election, it will be|the greatest voter turnout in the history of this country. i can see that. i can see it.|and they said all of these people that are going to come in new, that never vote they never vote, they dont care theyre going to|mostly ill tell you what, theyre going to vote for trump. thats why theyre coming in, because theyre so fed up with the|system this corrupt, horrible system. theyre fed up with it and theyre fed up with those guys back there, the media.|trump: they are the worst.|no, no, no. theyre fed up. theyre fed up with the media. i mean, ive got and you know, not all bad, but theres so much|dishonesty in the media. and i like to call it out. and one of the things thats really been amazing to me, and such its been so|beautiful to watch the level of genius in the public. they get it, you know? they really get it. they want to marginalize us, they want to do all|of this and they want to make everybody look like, "oh, gee."|the level of genius they fully understand. they know theyre crooked, they know theyre dishonest and they really otherwise, who|gets worse publicity than me?|and yet, i see a poll at 42 percent. and you know, youre talking about 15, 16 people, started with 17. how are you? started with 17 people. and you|know, id be happy with 42 if we had three, ok? not thrilled, id like to be that over that 50 mark, but i think were doing really|well.|and you know, its interesting, but the debates ok. so the debates thank i love you too, darling.|i love you. i do. i love you. i love every you know what? the rooms, no matter where, whether its stadiums or big ballrooms like this one,|its amazing, and theres love in the room. and i told the other night, i said and a friend of mine, very, very successful guy who i would|love to have negotiating against china. thats what we need, not these hacks that we have.|no, no. i have guys |carl icahn endorsed me. great business man. we have i have great, great business people that want to be involved. and were going to use |we have the best. we have the best in the world. we dont use them. we use political hacks, we use special interest people that really dont|care about the country, they care about their deals.|this is going to change so fast. you know, last year, $500 billion trade deficit with china. think about it. you know what $500 billion is? you do |you do $100 bills, you would fill the room to the ceiling, $500 billion deficit trade deficit with china. what are we? are we yes, i guess|the answer is certainly lets not blame us.|our leaders are stupid and and/or you have to say and/or they have deals, because whats happened is all of this money is being given to|them by special interests, by all of these people, including lobbyists, and these lobbyists make our leaders do our leaders, can you believe our|leaders? this is what but they make the leaders of our country do things that they dont even want to do because theyve given them tens|and tens and tens of millions of dollars.|i look at this guy jeb bush. he spent $59 million on his campaign and he is down in the grave. he is nowhere. no, no. think of it. its got to be|much more than that. it was actually $59 million a while ago. every time i turn on an add, i see an ad about trump. i mean, its not that bad an ad|either. its like you know.|if youre going to do an ad, do an ad. but hes a low-energy person. lets face it. we dont need low-energy. we need lots of energy.|but he spent think of it. think of it. he spent $59 million. i spent nothing, right? nothing.|now, im going to be spending. you probably saw im going to spend now, were going to start spending a lot of money because i|dont want to take any chances. you know, its i love getting up and for the last couple of months, i have been leading from|practically the time i announced, right? and for the last and leading a lot. im going to go over that because i go over polls. i love|polls. i love polls.|now, when they if they turn negative, i dont like them.|and i promise, if they turn negative, im not going to be talking about them. in fact, i get criticized all the time. youre always talking|about your polls. one of these guys just got two. hes at two. im at 42. and one of these guys whos at two said, "he always talks about|his polls and i dont." i wouldnt either if i had two, i swear i wouldnt.|i wouldnt. i wouldnt do it at all. but you know, i love to tell the story where i have spent nothing and bush has spent $59 million, but much|higher than that. thats just you know, because i see since then i mean, just you cant turn on this television without these|commercials. and fox every two minutes its a commercial on trump.|you know what he did? its false advertising. so i killed him in the debate. according to reuters, according to everybody, drudge, whos an|amazing guy, by the way. if you dont know drudge matt drudge. right? hes a great guy. but drudge, 46 percent. at 46 percent, you have 15|people. now, if you noticed a couple have dropped out. a couple or more.|but 15, 16 people 46 percent. time magazine, 49 percent. think of it. slate, 51 percent. u.s. news and world report 69 percent said i won|the debate. i wont the debate, right?|pbs, public broadcasting system 69 percent said trump won.|no, you know, it is amazing. we have washington times at 62 percent. cbs, 59 percent. fox, 62 percent fox las vegas, 62 percent. so, they all say|then they go back home, after the debate. i like to see how did i do? did i look good? looking good is very important, right? sometimes, it is not|as much like what you say, its how did you look?|oh, i looked good, didnt sound too good, but that is ok. you wonder if that is a good trait. but i go home, and i watch, and the pundits will say|and they cant totally kill me, because we know it is happening, we know whats happening well, mr. trump was ok tonight. he was|i won every single online poll, i won.|and then, heres bush. so, bush does an ad. and he takes me and he was talking about, you know, something, and manage and then i killed|him. i mean, he by the way, i met 69 percent, he is at 1 percent, he got. he came in last.|he takes the ad and i shouldnt even talk about him. hes down to two or three i but it bothers me when i see a guy spending,|you know, $60 million on ads against me, a lot of it, right? i say, why is he doing this? doesnt he have something better, he should go home.|just relax. you know, honestly, he should go home and relax. he shouldnt be wasting his time. but it does. i say, why is this guy spending all this|money? now he is spending it actually against a couple of other guys, they were also very weak and somewhere but here is my ad. so, he made a|statement, and after that, his spin people said, oh, he was great. he took on trump, he took on trump. im standing here, hes over here. took|on trump, he made a statement that was written by his pollster. you know? so, he would remember it.|he said, "mr. trump, why dont you this?" i said, ok. then i gave him an answer. i said, "jeb, im at 42, you are at 2. right? it is a simple|answer. you started off here, right next to me, and then you were there, then you were there, by the next time, you are going to be off the stage.|right?|no, no, its true. and then and then and that was it. and so i responded. so, he asked me a question, question was fine. you know,|professionally written. so, he asked me a question, good. i give him an answer, i blow him away. right. everyone says trump won the debate. everybody.|and hat is it. so, the ad is him asking the question and im standing there like this, because i havent in fact, you see in one of them,|im just about ready to open my mouth.|but he doesnt let me respond. that is almost false advertising, isnt it? you know? so, i mentioned it, hillary is a disaster. i mean, hillary.|hillary is controlled by her money. so is jeb. so is by the way, im the only one self-funding my campaign. im self-funding.|you know, one of the things that makes me happy. i heard one of my commentators this morning, said, "you know, ive been watching this stuff for 50|years and ive never seen anything like what has happened with trump. one of them actually said one of them im special. youre|special. i like you. im special.|isnt that nice? thats a very every once in a while, somebody can say something that hits you. where are you? who said that? wow. so|nice. thank you. that is a nice one. thats like, you know, very once in a while, there is a statement that is either nice or brutal. i think|low-energy was a brutal statement, right?|low-energy can be applied to hillary. i just dont like to use the same thing twice on one of my enemies. right? because i consider them enemies. we|view this as war. dont we view this as war? its war.|its war. and so, you dont like to use it. i hate to give it up. what?|how are you going to help my little girl , daughter? oh, we are going to help your daughter. we are going to help the country, thats called|helping the daughter. we are going to help your country. so, here is the story. so, we are in a situation where we have incompetent leadership, where|our trade deals are killing us, our military is not prepared. general odierno when he left, just recently, he said that we are less prepared than at any|time that he can remember. and i think he went back tot he beginning, but lets say second world war. ok? thats enough.|and we should be very prepared now, because the world hates us. she has done a terrible job as secretary of state. think of it. putin comes out, he|said, donald trump is brilliant, he is doing an amazing job, and he is leading the pack. ok, thats nice.|and she and my opponents oh, isnt it terrible that putin said wouldnt it be nice if we could get along with the world?|wouldnt it be? seriously. no, no, wouldnt it be nice?|i mean, they want me to refute his statement. how dare you say im brilliant? how dare thats whos going to do that? and by the|way, if he said it about anyone of them, they would have been very happy.|but the point is, we have to get along. the world has blown up around barack obama.|now, i dont know if you saw his recent release. they were talking about the department of state, state department, and they said very strongly, you|know, the things that theyve done. well, they couldnt find it because what have they done thats good? and they said bringing peace to|syria. did you see that?|so instead of saying they made a mistake call it a typo, they made a mistake theyre trying to justify it. well, we meant were|working on it. can you believe bringing peace to syria. the world is blowing up, the migration in syria they say one of their achievements|for the year is bringing peace to syria, and the whole worlds talking about it. its the level of stupidity is incredible. im|telling you. i used to use the word incompetent, now i just call them stupid.|i went to an ivy league school, im very highly educated. i know words, i had the best words. i have but theres no better word than|stupid.|right? there is none. there is none.|theres no theres no theres no word like that. so we are going to turn things around. but and if we have hillary |ive got to tell you. i just saw where for the last week shes been hitting me really hard with the women card, ok? really hard. and i had to|say ok, thats enough, thats enough. and we did a strong number. shes not going to win. any by the way, i love the concept i love,|love, love having a woman president. cant be her. shes horrible. shes horrible.|and you know really dont ill tell you who does not like yeah, well get ivanka. good. lets do ivanka.|but ill tell you who doesnt like hillary are women. women dont like hillary.|i see it all the time. and always so theatrical; mr. trump said this and that and this. and you just i actually i shouldnt do it. i|just have to turn off the television so many times. she just gives me a headache.|but you know although i think last night i gave her a big headache.|i can imagine i can imagine those discussions. but you have to hit back hard, and you cant let them push you around. and today, she gave a|mentioned nine times, none of the other candidates were mentioned. and then she came out with the sexism, which is so nonsense. and but shes|playing that card. and then i had to hit her back, so i hit her back and i talked about her husband and the abuse of women and the tremendous abuse|no, its tremendous abuse.|i mean, you look at it, its tremendous abuse. and i talked about that. and now today, the television is going crazy, and she gets up, makes a|and remember this; its really important. a poll just came out where were tied, another one came out a couple of weeks ago, fox, where im|leading by four or five points against her individually. were doing great. i havent even focused on her yet.|look at the people ive focused on. i dont want to really knock them, i dont want to mention their names. but, you know, of those people|that are all gone, they were all people that attacked me. wouldnt it be nice if our country could have that same thing? you attack and theyre,|boom, gone. and if we could do it verbally|you know, if we could do it verbally thats even better, right? you know, who wants to use our military? by the way, we are going to build the|strongest, the best, the most powerful military ever. ever. ever.|and were going to take care of our vets, were going to take care of our vets|and it will cost you much less money, and it will be great. i mean, you are signing in programs, things that you will never, ever use, you know that.|and you are paying for it. and you will never ever use them. so we will get that straightened out. we are going to straighten a lot of things. we are|going to straighten out common core. common core is dead. its going to be dead.|when i look at parents and i see local parents in iowa and new hampshire and south carolina, i went to a school and i saw the parents, they love their|children. they want that they want education. they love they dont care about money, they dont care about anything. they love their|children and its local.|and they get together and they do wonderful programs. they are smart people as opposed to getting it done by bureaucrats that are getting big, fat|checks in washington. i mean, we have such talent in this country and we dont use it. so, obamacare, dead. common core, gone. we are going to get|rid of it. department of education, we are going to get rid of it.|we are bringing education to a local level. one thing on education. so, in the world, we are ranked number 28. there are third world countries that are|ranked better than us in education and many other things. and yet, per pupil, we are number 1, by far there is nobody close. number two isnt|even close.|so we spend more money for pupil than any country in the world and we are ranked number 28 which is way down at the bottom, essentially. i mean,|its can you imagine we are ranked number 28 and we are number 1? and thats what i do like saying about my campaign, i spent less money|than anybody else and i have the best results.|im number one by a lot and i spent no money. i mean, my plane cost me some money, but i spent no ads. took a little radio ad in iowa. but i|didnt do that i took i think the station is so lovely if you want to know the truth. but i spent essentially no money.|and then you have all these other guys spending vast and they like the way the united states is run. now, why would we put a guy like jeb, like|some of the others. its not only jeb bush. they spend money. i see rubio on the ads all day long.|you know, the black background. hes got like a black thing. he should have put something like that behind him, right? right there, the flag.|no, no. and i like him. i think he is a nice guy. but i see these ads with the backdrop and it is just somber. its not i dont think|its good. so, think of it. i spent no money and im number one. others spent they will have spent hundreds of millions of dollars and|they are not even in the race. thats what we need for our country. what? ok. ive got 15,000, i dont know what the hell he means by that|but thats ok. so, but i think hes a fan. i dont think hes a are you a protester? no. ok. no body likes trump. ok. hes not|a protester. i love you.|you know, the only time dont worry about it. the only time the cameras focus on the crowd is when we have a protester. cause i always have|like, look at this room, packed. i always have the biggest crowds.|and i go home and my wife said were there many people? i watched you on television tonight. i said, i had 20,000 people. she said, they didnt show|it. they have it right on your face. so i have 20,000 people. i have 20,000 in oklahoma, 35,000 in mobile, alabama. nobody knows. because those cameras|stay right in your face and i think they cant move.|you know, i think they might be fixed because modern cameras maybe except every time there is a guy that stands up protesting, you know, they are|on drugs or something, cause some of those guys, its like. they dont even know what the hell they are doing there, all the sudden, the cameras|swerve and make perfect shots.|and i like it because then it shows how big the crowds are. so, you know. some time i think im going to put in some false protesters. ill put|in some friendly protesters. its the only way im going to be able to get the crowd in.|so when we started, i talked about trade. i talked about the border. i talked about a lot of things. and i started on june 16th and in trump|tower, the famous escalator ride. and it takes guts to run for president. ill tell you, you know, its like, ive never did this before.|and, you know, then they tell you on a debate we had the largest debate. we have the largest audience in the history of cable television. then cnn a|couple of weeks later had 23 million. fox had 24 million. cnn had 23 million the largest audience in the history of cnn.|now, theyre there the cameras are on live right now. i mean, you know. so, the largest audience in the history of .|now, the debates used to be, if you go back four years or eight years, you know, whenever the cycles came up, nobody even wanted they didnt|want the debates. i think they were forced to take them for licensing. nobody wanted the debates. they drew nothing, but now theyre drawing 24|million. now they want to have more debates "oh, can we have more? can we have more?" can they go three hours?|do you remember when they had the one go three hours? i said, no, im not doing three hours. its too long. who wants i could stand up|here for 50 hours, but who the hell wants to sit home watching three hours of the stuff, right?|"mr. trump, you have 30 seconds. what would you do about isis?" oh, great. and by the way, that question i hate those questions. you know why?|because i want to be unpredictable. i dont want to tell isis what im going to do to knock the hell out of them.|remember, i said very strongly the oil for what, four years? youve been watching. i mean, four years. ive been "get the oil,|get the oil, get the oil." because whos going to get the oil? iran is taking over iraq. we made a deal for iran, done by some of the dumbest people|on earth, on our side. we gave them everything. they we dont even get our prisoners back.|and now iran wants to start negotiating separately for them. can you believe it? i go crazy. we would have gotten them back. all you had to do was say,|"we want our prisoners back." they would have said no. i would have said, "i want them back; you dont understand me. i want them back." they would|have said, "no, we wont do that." i would have said, "bye-bye," and i would have left. then i would have doubled up the sanctions. and i guarantee|you|i guarantee you that within 24 hours, they would have called back and theyll say, "youve got your prisoners; can we talk?"|and i would have never given them $150 billion. i would have never given them the money. i would have never give theyre using it they|dont have to make nuclear. they can buy it. why are they going to make it? then we have the nuclear, where they have self- inspections. how about|the area you know, the big area? they dont want us there. oh, i wonder why. they dont want us there. so they self-inspect, ok?|then they have the 24-day inspection, but the self-inspection is the beauty. "we think youre making nuclear weapons here." "well, let us go check,|mr. president, well check."|"no, sir, were not making nuclear weapons. nobody no, were not; we would never do a thing like that."|these are people that have deceived us. theyve lied to us. theyre a terrorist state. but and i used to say its the worst deal that|ive ever seen negotiated. and by the way, just to finish prisoners. so theyd come back; we get our prisoners. but then when i hear the other|day that now this deal is done. its all done. and now i hear they want to negotiate to get and what do they say? they said very strongly,|they said, "we are going to want a lot for the prisoners. thats out were starting off; were going to want a lot."|now, weve already taken off the sanctions. theyre already rich as hell. what whats going on there? thats why i say, i mean,|some people say its worst than stupidity. theres something going on that we dont know about. i mean, honest. and you almost think |im not saying that, and im not a conspiracy person. as you said, "we are; were saying it."|half the people in this room are saying it. im trying to be you know, im just hoping theyre just stupid people, ok?|which they are. or theres something going on. because its its inconceivable. you know, do you ever see where some things are so bad|that it cant be that nobody can do what they did, right? nobody.|so, iran now wants to negotiate separately for the . in other words, that deal is done; now we want to start all over again. and they want a|lot. "we want a lot." and i just i want to just shoot the television, you know? because they would have had it just by saying.|and, you know, when they asked kerry and obama, the deal was made. everybody knows its a horrible deal. its going to need to its|going to lead to tremendous nuclear proliferation, and theyre so rich now. you know, they became $150 billion they became so rich. and|many other things that you dont even know about. most people dont even know what the agreement says.|but ill tell you what, when you look at what were doing, were not going to have if we keep going like this, folks, were not|going to have a country left. were not going to have a country. were not going to have a country.|and were like a dumping ground for the world. were a dumping ground. they want to take these migrants the migrants, you know, and i feel|terrible about the migration, caused by hillary clinton and barack obama. theyre the ones that caused it. they go into libya. they knocked the hell|out of gadhafi. ok, so gadhafi they backed rebels who end up killing the ambassador and the other young people.|you know the ambassador was riding in a jeep, one of our jeeps, of course, a military jeep, holding the libyan flag and you know, freedom, freedom,|freedom. and then gets killed by the same people. so, we backed people that turned out to be far worse than gadhafi.|look at what we did in iraq. look at what we did in iraq. i mean, what the hell did we get? we spent $2 trillion, and that was as a year and a half ago.|i keep saying two or three, its a lot more than that. we spent $2 trillion, we have thousands of deaths, and im not even talking other side.|you are talking about hundreds of thousands, maybe millions. you have thousands of deaths. we have wounded warriors, who i love, all of. these guys are|the toughest these are the greatest people.|you know, these are the greatest people. and then what happens? we leave, and we have a president that announces the date of when we are leaving. so, i|said, man, if im the enemy, im just going to go wait for 18 months right?|he gave a date. we are leaving iraq, we will be gone by such and such a time. i said, im just sitting there watching and im saying, man,|thats really stupid. because, believe me, the enemy doesnt want to be killed. you know, you hear so much, oh they want to go with the virgins|up to wherever they go, right?|they dont. they want to live. and they want to take care of their families, always their families. you remember that, because their families know|whats going on ok? you think their wives dont know what they are planning? you think their kids dont know exactly what daddy is doing|when daddy is going to fly into the world trade center? you think they dont know? they know exactly whats going on. remember that. and|frankly, i think they have more love for their familys lives than they do for their own lives, ok. but they still want to live. so here is obama,|gives an exact date. he gives an exact date and so they pull back.|and everyone says, oh, we are doing so well. look, were doing so well. why should they fight when they know, in 18 months, they can go in and take|the place? so what happens? so we have isis taking a lot of oil. i said take the oil. remember when we left, i was opposed to going in because i said|youre going to destabilize the middle east.|because you had iraq and you had iran. and i said, they fight, theyre always fighting for decades and decades, for generations. they fight,|thats what they do. they fight. how we ever got involved in this mess is hard to believe. they fight and they were equal militarily. they go this|way, 10 feet. they go this way, 10 feet. then they rest a couple of years, then they start fighting again.|then saddam hussein throws a little gas. everyone goes crazy. oh, its because of gas. they go back and forth. its the same. and they were|stabilized. and i said, if you go after one or the other, in this case iraq, youre going to destabilize the middle east. thats what going to|happen. youre going to destabilize the middle east. and thats exactly what happened. we totally destabilized the middle east.|we have now migrations ,largely because of whats happened afterwards. you know iraq was horrible. it was stupid to go in and we should have never|gone in. but we shouldnt have gotten out the way we went out. and we shouldnt have given dates. i mean, i would have probably said we are|going to stay forever. and they would have said, oh, man.|and then keep going, keep going and eventually they would get tired and say, this guy is crazy. i mean, hes never going to leave and youll|make a deal. but when you announce you are leaving in 18 months or whatever the hell he said, they just pull back. and then as soon as we left, they|come in ok?|so they have the oil. you know who the biggest benefactor of the oil is right? china. always china. i love china. i love mexico. their leaders are too|smart for us. we have no border. we will build a wall. mexico will pay for the wall by the way.|were building a wall, we are going to have a border. and people are going to come into our country, but they are going to come in through a legal|process. theyre not coming in the way theyre coming in now, just walking in like nothing.|they are going to come in, but they are going to come through a legal process. so, with iraq, so we give them the date and they take over. we didnt|take the year. so for four years, i have been talking about it. then because of paris, all of sudden they start bombing the oil.|but i didnt want to just bomb the oil. i wanted to take oil. theyre bombing. you know, we are bombing. great. whats going to happen after|that? so were bombing. and, you know, we are not really bombing it, because they are still selling it.|i said, how could they keep selling it? obama does not want to hit them too hard because he is afraid he is going to pollute the atmosphere. no, this|is serious. now think of it. he talks about the carbon footprint and yet he will fly a very old air force one, an old boeing 747, with the old engines|and you know, spewing stuff.|so, hes got a problem with the carbon footprint. you cant use hair spray because hair spray is going to affect the ozone. im trying to|figure out. lets see, im in my room in new york city and i want to put a little spray so that i can|right? right? but i hear where they dont want me to use hair spray, they want me to use the pump because the other one which i really like|better than going bing, bing, bing|and then it comes out in big globs, right, and you its stuck in your hair and you say oh my god, ive got to take a shower again.|my hairs all screwed up, right?|i want to use hair spray. they say dont use hair spray, its bad for the ozone. so im sitting in this concealed apartment, this concealed|unit you know, i really do live in a very nice apartment, right?|but its sealed, its beautiful. i dont think anything gets out. and im not supposed to be using hair spray. but think of it. so|obamas always talking about the global warming, that global warming is our biggest and most dangerous problem, ok? no, no, think of it. i mean,|even if youre a believer in global warming, isis is a big problem, russias a problem, chinas a problem. weve got a lot of problems.|by the way, the maniac in north korea is a problem. he actually has nuclear weapons, right? thats a problem.|weve got a lot of problems. weve got a lot of problems. thats right, we dont win anymore. he said we want to win. we dont win|anymore. were going to win a lot if i get elected, were going to win a lot.|were going to win so much were going to win a lot. were going to win a lot. were going to win so much youre all going to|get sick and tired of winning. youre going to say oh no, not again. im only kidding. you never get tired of winning, right? never.|but think of it. so obamas talking about all of this with the global warming and the a lot of its a hoax, its a hoax. i mean,|its a money-making industry, ok? its a hoax, a lot of it. and look, i want clean air and i want clean water. thats my global i want|clean, clean crystal water and i want clean air. and we can do that, but we dont have to destroy our businesses, we dont have to destroy our|and by the way, china isnt abiding by anything. theyre buying all of our coal; we cant use coal anymore essentially. theyre buying|our coal and theyre using it. now when you talk about the planet, its so big out there were here, theyre there, its like|theyre our next door neighbor, right, in terms of the universe. miss universe, by the way, i made a great deal when i sold oh did i get rich.|that was a great deal. you know, they broke my choppers on that. they said he talks about illegal immigration, were not going to put him on|television. first of all, univision is being sued like crazy; you wouldnt believe it. and nbc, i made a great deal with them, just like an amazing|deal, far more than i would have ever gotten i mean, i made an unbelievable deal far more than i ever would have gotten if i said i think|im going to sell it if times were normal, right? isnt it amazing the way that stuff can work out?|but i love miss universe and i love the universe. but think of it. so china is spewing up all this stuff and were holding back. and with china|you know, we signed these agreements where we have to do it now, they have to do it within 30 or 35 years. i dont think theyre going to|be doing it.|its like japan. if somebody attacks japan, we have to immediately go and start world war iii, ok? if we get attacked, japan doesnt have to|help us. somehow, that doesnt sound so fair. does that sound good?|so south korea i order televisions, i order thousands of televisions a year. i order televisions because i have a lot of stuff and i like nice|brand new theyre all made in south korea, most other than sony, and sony, in all fairness, has lost its way. but a lot of them |samsung, all of them. i mean, theyre all pretty much all of them, right? i think just about. but i order thousands of televisions,|theyre all from south korea. so we have 28,000 people on the border separating south korea from this maniac in north korea, we get nothing. what do|we get nothing. theyre making a fortune. its an economic behemoth.|a lot of you dont know we protect germany. germany! mercedes benz, how many people have a mercedes benz? we protect germany. its an economic|behemoth.|we protect saudi arabia. they were, during the good oil days now its probably half, which is fine. but during the good old they were|making a billion listen to this a billion dollars a day, and we protect them. our military they pay us peanuts, like nothing. and then|if we want to buy we want to move to another location, well, thats very expensive if we do that. we want they charge us rent?|i mean, look. we are run by people that are so bad, theyre so out of their league and i see it, i see it on the stage. you know, theyre|a lot of them are nice people. you know, a lot of people think i dont like these people. i do like them. but they dont have business|sense, they dont have business ability, they dont have common sense. theyre politicians, theyre all talk, theyre no action.|when i say|folks, when i say, "were going to build a wall." most of them say, "you cant build a wall build a wall." in china 2,000 years ago,|they built the great wall of china, which is bigger than any wall were thinking about, ok? the great wall of china goes 18,000 miles. we have 2,000|miles of which we only need 1,000 miles, because you have a lot of natural barriers, right, that are extremely tough to get across. we have 1,000 miles.|so, china has 18,000 or 13,000 miles, and we have 1,000 miles. we have modern cranes. we have caterpillar tractors i want to use caterpillar; i|dont want to use komatsu.|made in america.|even my hats, theyre made in america. it wasnt easy to find a guy that could do those hats. you know what im talking about. i see so many|knock-offs of my hat, right? "make america great again." i see these things that are out of plastic. theyre out of all sorts of crap. mine are made|in america. and honestly, they do a great job, but they dont produce as many as id like because, frankly, theres a big i mean,|its amazing. those hats are amazing. but i wanted to have it made. and you know why i wanted it i wanted it, anyway, but i also knew that as|soon as the hats came out, and other things we have a website as soon as the hats came out, i knew the press would be calling. and its|true. first hour when the hats were announced, i get a call from the new york times. "mr. trump, where are those hats made?" i said, "america."|i knew it. i knew it. because as you know, if i would have said china, i would have been in big, big trouble. but theyre being knocked off all over|the world. i mean, i see hats theyre like helmets. i see them all. but what are you going to do?|but heres the story. weve got to build a wall. so when i talk and when im up on the stage with these guys, these people wonderful|people and a very nice woman, carly. shes a nice woman. when im up on the stage with them, they think im crazy when i say "mexico"|im saying, "were going to build a wall; its going to be a great wall; its going to be real wall. see this ceiling? this|ceiling is peanuts compared to the height of the wall im talking about."|im talking about a van to get up there. theyre not coming down because its too dangerous.|all right? did you ever see what they do now? we have these little walls. they build ramps. they build a ramp. i say, "wouldnt it be cheaper just|to knock the wall down and just " and then they drive over it with jeeps loaded up with drugs. do you see this? they build ramps. there was a picture|in time magazine. its a ramp a little ramp that goes over the wall. so, they have a jeep over, down, bump, make money. we get the|drugs. think of it. we "build a wall" is right. youve got to build a wall.|we get the drugs. they get the cash. no so good, right? we dont like that deal. our politicians dont know they dont know.|so when i say "mexicos going to pay for it," these guys on the stage with me, theyre not business people. they dont understand. mexico|makes a fortune off the united states. number one, we give them a lot of money. but in addition to that, theyre taking our businesses. theyre|making you talk about a trade deficit. ill tell you what, mexico in a certain way is in a mini-version the new china. mexico is making an|absolute fortune peanuts, compared to the cost of the wall.|lets say the cost of the wall is $10 billion. thats a good i can do great job at $10 billion. i think well have a lot of money left|over. somebody else would and by the way, 20 years ago, they wanted to build a wall. people that are opposed to it now, they wanted to stop and|they wanted to build a wall. you know one of the reasons they didnt build the wall? because of the environmental protection agency, they|couldnt get an environmental impact study approved. can you believe it? because there was a toad or a turtle or a snake or something was in the|now, think of it. in china, in the south china sea, there were these low-level land masses that were covered by water, but pretty close to the top.|china sends in massive excavators and theyre . theyre building military fortresses in the south china sea. and a friend of mine,|who is one of the biggest and richest people in china hes a great guy. theyre great people. theyre fine. theyre just too|smart. i mean, the leaders are too smart for our people.|they wont be too smart when i put my people there.|when they call up, "wed like to speak to the donor that is negotiating it." "no, no. the donor now is carl icahn. youre going to speak to carl|icahn." you know carl great businessman. you have so many people they call all these business people call. so, a friend of mine, so i|call him, i say, "youre actually doing that." and then jokingly, i said, "how long did it take to get started? did you have to get an environmental|impact study approved in order to excavate?"|he looked at me, goes, "i i hope youre kidding when you say that.|they conceived of the idea and they started digging four hours later, ok? there is no, you know, go through 25 years of environmental impact, you are|going to hurt the snail. youre going to hurt this. you are going to they are doing a big thing.|they excavated massive, massive take a look, massive. the biggest excavation. they are ripping the hell out of that ocean. they are ripping|it and they are taking their dirt and they are putting it and theyre building air fields and theyre building forts.|we couldnt do it because, just like i said for the law. legitimately, they could not get an environmental impact statement. now, thats|probably not the only reason it didnt happen. i heard their costs were too high. with me, thats easy.|you know, im doing the old post office or watch you . im under budget, im ahead of schedule. hey, look at the campaign. the|guys at $59 million and hes down at the bottom. im nothing and im at the top. its the same thing.|i actually said its funny. the other day i got this great review. they said trump is a great speaker. the crowd is spellbound. but he has|one problem. and im reading, and i want to see. the problem is, he speaks through the applause. in other words, like i say that, you applaud, i|start talking you finish your applause. and you know why? because im so excited, because we have so much potential. its true.|i dont want to wait for your freaking applause. we have i have so many we have so much potential. there are so many things to do. i|dont really sort of want to wait. i want to do it. and i just noticed, i did it again. you were getting ready to give a big applause, because you|like that, and im speaking. i killed the applause. but he is right. but except, im not a speaker. what i am is a doer. i get things done.|so, when the people up on the stage with me and hillary, hillary doesnt have a clue. by the way, you talk about low energy. she has lower|energy than jeb bush, which is hard to believe. she does. and ill tell you and ive been saying it. and maybe its rude, maybe it is not.|but it doesnt matter. we have a much bigger problem. we have to save our country.|so, if im rude and if people think im rude im actually a nice person. i have a big heart. i want to help people. i want to help the|migration. i want to do a safe zone in syria. i dont want them coming here. we dont know who these people are. they are undocumented.|and we should do a safe zone over there. we should have the gulf states saudi arabia and these states they are not spending. they have got to|spend. they have to pay. you know, we are protecting them. were doing they wouldnt be there for two minutes if we werent protecting|them. they have to start paying. they are not taking anybody, ok?|how about germany taking millions of migrants. can you believe what she is doing to that country? and she was the person of the year and i wasnt.|everybody said trump was supposed to.|hey, what are you going to do. i think she has made a terrible mistake. we will find out. time will tell. they have tremendous crime problems. i think|she has made a tremendous mistake. but what i like is in syria, with other peoples money, meaning the gulf states and others and germany and|others.|because, look, germany is paying a fortune to accept all these people. theyll give us the money. we do a massive safe zone. and then eventually|when this whole catastrophe straightens out, which i will probably be able to get it straightened out, i understand this now.|but once its straightened out, they could go home to their country, you know, to their area. it is interesting, i have thousands of people that|work for me. thousands. and i have people that come from far they are all here legally, dont worry about it. i use e- verify. but i have|people oh, they go and check. these guys go check.|they went into the old post office checking everybody who walked their dog, are you hear illegally? they said they found one person out of hundreds and|hundreds. i dont believe it. but, you know, it is possible somebody slipped hey, we do have 11 million people in the country. and it is|probably a much higher number than that, ok? it is probably a much higher number.|but we have to do something about it and we are going to. so, i just want to finish by saying this. look, we have a situation that is out of control.|our country is a dumping ground for the rest of the world. we are laughed at by the rest of the world.|and when i started this journey, and it is a journey, and i do love you people. youre amazing people. and by the way, you are so smart. a lot of|times, they will say, well mr. trumps people are blue-collar. i love blue-collar. im honored by that.|but they are not blue-collar. we have blue-collar and we have executives and we have young people. they say the audience is old. its not older. the|audience is young. the other night in iowa, i told that, and i said, we have so many young people and the place erupted. they are all young people. we|have an amazing thing happening, its just|look, thats their way of marginalizing, not even me, they are marginalizing you. it is disgusting. but when i started this journey and thats|what it is, its a journey and its a movement thats taking place. its a movement. remember the old days? silent majority? its|not right. its a noisy majority. people are angry. its a noisy majority. these arent silent people anymore. i go to people you|cant even hear.|this is an amazing thing thats happened. i received a call from one of the biggest reporters, who happens to be liberal, but thats ok.|a couple of them, right? but, a guy whos really respected, recently, and he said, "how does it feel?" i said, "how does what feel?" he|said, "what you have done has never been done in the history of politics in the united states." i mean, even cnn said, "number one political story of|the year is trump." you know what number two was? isis isis was two. id rather reverse it. let isis be one; let me be two, because i want to|knock the hell out of them and make me number one next year.|make me number one next year. but this reporter, who is a great intellect, actually, and a very smart guy, very good guy. he said he said, "what|youve done has never been done before in the history of this country." newt gingrich was on a television show the other say, and said, "this is one|the great phenomenons ive ever seen in politics; nobodys ever seen it."|crowds like this? forget it. i mean, its only confined to this . again, they sent 3,000 people home. can you believe it? more than|3,000. its its unbelievable whats happening. its beautiful whats happening. its beautiful whats happening. but|newt gingrich said hes never seen anything like this.|but he said to me, the reporter, he said, "never been done before." i said, "well, you know, its fine, but if i dont win, its just a|waste of time." he goes, "no, no, no. what youve done is incredible." he said, "even if you dont win, what youve done is incredible;|youve totally changed the landscape of politics."|no, dont applaud, dont applaud, dont applaud. he said, "youve totally changed the landscape of politics; its forever going to|be different. your campaign theres never been anything like it." ok, he was very nice. i said, "you dont understand. you dont|understand. if i dont win, i will consider this" and i mean this "a total and complete waste of time." i really do.|so because were not going to do anything. its wonderful. oh, good, i had nice crowds. theyll write about me every once in a while;|every two years ill have a story, "trump ran this rather good campaign." if we dont win, to me, and honestly you should feel the same thing,|if we dont win, its a terrible waste of time, because youll have somebody else in there. they wont be able to do what i do.|theyre not going to be able to. and even if you get one of these republicans in, like, i didnt finish the so, the wall.|when i say "mexico is going to pay," they all laugh. they all go "heh, heh, heh." they think its funny. honestly, these are people they think|its funny. theyre laughing. you know, lightly, like "oh ho, thats so funny; ha, ha, ha." theyre going to pay for the wall, folks.|theyre making billions and billions and billions of dollars on deficits that we have with mexico. the wall is peanuts. theyre going to pay for|the wall.|but i mention it, now they dont laugh because theyre starting to agree with me. and then the other day, one of the people said it was|ted cruz, who is a nice guy. but he said, "were going to build a wall at the southern border." i said, "look" and my wife is sitting|where did that come from, right? no, teds a good guy.|but he said on one of i think it was on fox, he was being interviewed. and he said, "were going to build a wall at the southern border." he|didnt say mexico was going to pay was going to pay. he hasnt gone that far yet, but believe me thats going to happen. see, theyre|all trying to catch up with me. because when i did this stuff, it was very out there.|now, im the one that everybody wants to sort of aspire to. but what happens is so teds up and hes talking. and, you know, routinely|were going to have the border; were going to have this and that. and were going to build a wall.|my wife is sitting there. she says, "darling, did you hear that? he just said theyre going to build a wall. thats the first time ive|you know, thats what you say." she hasnt heard that from any other candidate.|ok. so were going to build a wall. mexico is going to pay for it. there are so many things were going to do. but when i when i started|the journey, it was amazing. i came down it took courage. i went down in to the lobby of trump tower, on the escalator with melania. i have never|seen it looked like the academy awards, the press. we have a lot of press here today. theyre all live look at all those live cameras.|so when i came down when i came down on the escalator, we came down. and i said, "were going to do things." and i mentioned illegal|immigration. you wouldnt even be talking about illegal it wasnt even on the radar. nobody was talking about illegal immigration. is that|right? now, its one of the big subjects.|and thats why and one of the beautiful polls that came out, and im so proud of it, cnn just came out with a poll a couple of, i guess a|week ago 36 percent for trump; second is 16; third is 14; then 12. so theyre way down. but on the economy, they give me 55 55 percent.|thats with 16 people at the time.|on the budget, i mean, i understand the budget, the economy, i win i win it hands down, all right.|but listen to this. on illegal immigration, im almost at 50 percent.|and on isis, likewise, almost at 50 percent. so people want to be protected, they want to feel safe. they need strength, they need toughness, they need|smarts. i dont want to be tough you know, i know a lot of tough guys but theyre not smart, and theyre the theyre the|easiest. you can be tough, youve got to be smart.|lets start smart first. youve got to be smart-tough. youve got to be tough because the world is trying to take advantage of us. so what|happens is this. i came out, i started i did it, i was, oh, that first couple of weeks with illegal immigration and mexico and all of this stuff.|then kate was killed in san francisco and jamiel was killed in los angeles. jamiel shaw, an unbelievable young man, was killed, just shot right through|the head by an illegal immigrant. kate was shot by a guy who came in five or six times, shot in the back.|so many great people. and thats these are two, so many. and then you have the economy and the jobs that are being lost and people arent|paying taxes and all of this stuff, right? and all of a sudden, people are coming over, and i say the wall and now theyre starting to say the wall.|we have to be progressive in our thinking. when i say progressive, i mean like smart. im not talking progressive like a bernie sanders would say,|the guy want to tax you. think of it.|think of it. this guy wants to raise your taxes to 90 percent. no, no, think youll have to move out of this i love this area, by the|way. ive been here many times. great golfing area, right? we love it.|no more golf if bernie sanders no more golf. no, no, you wont have any golf anymore. there wont be you wont have any money|left to be youll be paying it in taxes. this guy is a total disaster.|and im not saying that ill tell you why. you know, hillary said well, id like to run against trump, believe me.|this poor chuck todd, meet the press. his show is dying and he keeps saying do it, do it, but i never liked it. you know, i just he never treated|me fairly. so i do his show, he gets the highest ratings hes had in years. he went from, like believe me, i wont even give you the|numbers, they were massive, the numbers, right? i saved his life, and then he goes hillary clinton said that she would most like to run against donald|trump. and yes and theyre looking forward to it. trust me, the last person shes already gotten a dose last night, do you agree?|she had a tough night. she had a tough one. she had a tough night looking at the beauty pageant, ok?|so hillary clinton said and heres chuck todd and hes a nice guy. im not trying to knock him. please dont be insulted,|chuck. but she says she doesnt like him. but he doesnt treat me right. so he goes the clinton campaign said theyd most like to run|against trump, like im some kind of a sap. so i call him and i say chuck, let me explain something. when they say they want to run against me, that|means they dont want to run against me, do you understand that? do you understand its reverse psychology.|they say they want to run against me first of all, im winning and tied in the polls now and i havent even hit her yet. but look at what|happened to all the guys i hit. theyre gonzo, theyre gone or theyre failing badly, ok, and theyll be gone soon.|but hillary clinton think of it. i say so chuck, report it like properly. trust me, they dont want to run against trump. the last thing she|wants in her whole life is this was only i did this in, like, 15 minutes what happened to them, because the husband wants to come and she|wants to accuse me of things and the husbands one of the great abusers of the world? give me a break. give me a break.|give me a break. so the last person she wants to run against is me.|now heres the story. look, heres the story. its very simple. so i announced and i was talking about trade, i was talking about the|wall, i was talking about the borders, i was talking about obamacare, i was talking about the 2nd amendment will be saved, by the way. the 2nd|amendment.|it will be saved. the 2nd amendment is going to be with us if im president. you know, theyre doing everything. they want to get rid of the|bullets now, theyre doing everything they can |think of paris, think of los angeles. think if you had some guns in paris on the good side, right? they had no guns. paris has the toughest guns in the|world, folks. and france i mean, you get caught with a gun, its the only one that has guns are the bad guys. so they go in these|various places, they called the guy the mastermind. hes a moron. i mean, this guy was a moron. i call him the guy with the dirty hat, right? they|got him so good. by the way, the french police did a great job and our los angeles police did a phenomenal job. they did a great job.|wouldnt it be wonderful if, lets see, this guy right here in front of me, hes a tough guy. this guy with the hat, with the lousy head of|hair, but hes a strong-looking guy right here. this guy right there, see? and that one. wouldnt it be nice if they had a gun on their waist?|somebody. him, him, him, so that when they you know what they were doing in paris? get over here, boom. get over here, boom. your turn, get over|here, boom. one hundred and thirty people with more to follow because there are people that are so badly injured right now in hospitals. other people|are going to die.|same thing over there. these are people that gave a party in honor of their marriage. theres something going on, folks. its wrong. they gave|them a party. they worked they gave them a party. she came in on a fiance permit or some nonsense and she was radicalized, and he was probably|radicalized by her or he was already radicalized.|and people knew that they were radicalized and people in the area knew that they had bombs who the hell doesnt know? youre their next|door neighbor. and they didnt want to talk about it. youve got to report these people. weve got a real problem. youve got to report|them. no more nonsense.|they didnt report them, and the reason they didnt is because they dont disagree with them so much. ok? believe me. its not because|they were afraid. you saw the one who wasnt politically correct to report them. they didnt want to report them. i mean, give me a break.|so we have to change.|so it started off with me where i was going to talk about trade, i was going to talk about all the things, i was going to talk about the military,|building it up. i was going to do all of this, but after paris and california, and there will be others because they have no fear of us, but after paris|and california, it has totally changed and my poll numbers went up 10 points.|its amazing. they went up 10 points. i said, "what, you think it was the debate?" because i did good in the debate. they said, "no. people view you|as a tough cookie thats not going to take this crap." thats what it is.|and now i talk about protection. i talk about trust me. the trade thats so easy for me. ive got the greatest guys in the world.|theyre going to come in, theyre going to do a great job. im going to do some myself. i always talk about ford. theyre going to built|a plant, $2.5 billion in mexico. thats not going to happen with me. that stuff is those deals are no good.|fords leaving. theyre closing plants all over michigan to build a plant in in mexico. how the hell does that help us? ok. who are the|people that think this is a good thing for us? and in the meantime, in michigan and other places, we have plants closing all over the place and|theyre spending think about a $2.5 billion then theyre going to sell cars, trucks and parts into the united states, no tax, no|nothing.|ill say you dont have to pay a tax, folks. and you know what? ford will say "if i pay a tax, were going to stay in the united|states." i mean, its very simple.|its very simple. how about two weeks ago, nabisco announced a big chicago. they announced theyre going to leave chicago with one of|their big plants and theyre going to move it to mexico. whats my statement? were not eating oreos anymore, right? no more.|but i dont want this. its not going to happen. then theyre make theyre going to make product and theyre going to sell it|into the united states? not going to happen. its not going to happen. and by the way, im a free trader. i believe weve got to be|smart. i mean, weve got to get something. we dont get anything out of anything. we dont get anything.|we lose on everything. that iran deal was a disaster. by the way, think of the iran deal for one second. i always and this came to me two weeks|ago. i dont know why i didnt think of it sooner. very disappointed with myself.|the iran deal is the worst deal ive ever seen negotiated, ok? im wrong. you know what the worst deal is? irans a part of that one too. we|gave them iraq. thats even better. think of it. we gave iran iraq. iran has the biggest think of it. theyre going to have the richest|oil if you go to iraq, take a look. among the largest oil reserves in the world.|we gave them, by decapitating iraq and then leaving, because frankly, once we did it we should have kept 20,00 troops or something, we give iraq. so not|only did they make a great deal in terms of the iran deal that we know having to do with nuclear, we also gave them iraq. we gave them iraq, that|theyve been after for 100 years. we handed it to them.|so now, they have the largest oil reserves among in the world. thats even better than the original deal. i mean, whoever is representing iran|is doing a hell of a job. ok? if that was a stock, youve got to buy some.|so we are not going to have deals like that with me. its not going to happen. were going to become rich again, we are going to become safe|again and we are going to become strong again. and |and youre going to remember this moment. this is going to be an important moment for all of us. the one thing i have to say and i have to ask you|to do, go out and vote. its going to be your turn.|number three. remember, it starts on february 1st with iowa. we go to new hampshire, then we go to the finals , so three weeks. weve got four|weeks to go, and then we have three weeks after we start. no matter what is going on in your life, you have got to out and vote. because if you|dont, its not going to happen.|dont sit back and say, oh, trump is going to do well. the more we can win by, you know, the more power we have in a sense, because it is like a|mandate. but you have got to go out and vote. and i will tell you this. it has been an honor to be here, i love this area, i love the people here.|its been an honor.|but we will make america great again, i promise. thank you.|thank you very much, everybody. well, i want to begin by thanking the people of south carolina. this is a special state. thank you. these|are special people and we got a little boost last week from a place we all remember new hampshire. we can't forget it. special, special. we love it.|and they sent us in here with a very good feeling, right?|very good feeling. so i really want to thank you and my volunteers. all of these people volunteers and they travel and they and i say, "what are|you doing?" and now they're going to texas and they're going all over. some are going to nevada. i'll be going to nevada. we're making a big speech|tomorrow in atlanta and then we're going right to nevada.|and i think we're going to do terrific and the sec's going to be very, very exciting. we expect to do very, very well. very well|i want to just say thank you to my family. it's been not easy for them. they don't see me anymore. i'm making speeches all the time and i have a great.|i really have a great family so i just want to thank all of you.|and ivanka you know we have a hospital ready just in case. in south carolina we're going to have a baby. there's nothing wrong with that, right? so|could be it could be any second. it could even be before i'm finished but it's but she insisted on being here. it was so important to ivanka to|insist on being here so thank you. really good and jared, vanessa, don.|we have a wonderful lieutenant governor who backed us very early in the process.|you know henry, right? the lieutenant governor of south carolina. i will take him over the governor anytime because we won. we won|he handle that very nicely. he's tough. he's very tough. tiffany, eric, lara and melania. melania, say something. go ahead, please |m. trump: just want to say an amazing place south carolina. congratulation to my husband. he was working very hard and he loves you. we love you and|we're going ahead to nevada. and we will see what happen . he would be the best president|and representing some very, very wonderful children, ivanka. just say a few words.|i. trump: thank you, south carolina. this is an amazing, amazing night. the momentum since the beginning of this campaign has been unbelievable and|that's because my father's message resonants so deeply with so many people. so as our family we're incredibly proud. we're incredibly grateful to each|of you so thank you for being here to support us. and i will say this, my father is an incredibly hard worker and he'll be working for each and every|one of you. so together we'll make america great again. thank you|thank you very much. thank you very much. so i was watching upstairs and it was really amazing to be watching what i was watching. and some of the|pundits and overall fair but not too much. but a number of the pundits said, "well, if a couple of the other candidates dropped out if you add their|scores together it's going to equal trump."|but these geniuses they're geniuses they don't understand that as people drop out i'm going to get a lot of those votes also. you don't just|you don't just add them together. so i think we're going to do very, very well. i think we're going to do very well. i want to also congratulate the|other candidates. in particular i have to say ted and marco did a really good job and they got they did quite well as i understand. no, come on. just|one minute. come on. one second, right? good.|ok. we go back to war tomorrow morning. tomorrow morning we'll be back but i just want to congratulate the other candidates. there's nothing easy about|running for president, i can tell you. it's tough, it's nasty, it's mean, it's vicious, it's beautiful.|when you win it's beautiful and we're going to start we are going to start winning for our country. we're going to start winning.|because our country doesn't win anymore. doesn't win. we don't win with the military, we can't beat isis. we have great military but we can't beat|isis. we don't win on trade. you look at what china's doing to us, what japan does to us, what mexico is just killing us at the border at the border|and with trade. mexico is killing us absolutely. we'll do the wall. don't worry. we're going to do the wall.|we're going to do the wall and by the way, who's going to pay for the wall?|mexico's going to pay for the wall and it's very easy. the other politicians come down, "you can't get mexico to pay for the wall." i said, "100|percent." we have a $58 billion trade deficit with mexico. the wall is going to cost $10 to $12 billion, ok? believe me, they will pay. one of the|officials actually, one of the ex-officials from mexico had a news conference.|and he announced that we will not be paying for the wall. who does mr. trump think he is? they came to me the press. these people look at all|those cameras back there.|the press came to me and they told me that he said that he would not pay for the wall. do you have a comment? i said, "yes. the wall just got 10 feet|taller."|it's true. and i love mexico. i love mexico, i love china, i love many of these countries that rip us off because we have leaders that are incomptent|and don't know what they're doing. i love these countries. they're great. i have thousands and thousands of hispanics. we're going to nevada.|i lead i lead with the hispanics. i'm leading in every poll with the hispanics. they love me, i love them. the problem is the problem is that the|leaders of these countries whether it's mexico or japan or viet nam which is just doing a big number now all of a sudden or china in particular |that's the big one. the greatest abuse of a country that i think i've ever seen financially china.|what they've done to us is the greatest single theft in the history of the world. they've taken our jobs, they've taken our money, they've taken|everything. we're bringing our jobs back, folks. we're bringing our jobs back. we're going to bring them back|and i know how to do it. we've had so many we've had so many incredible endorsements and to me getting the greatest business people to endorse me is|very important. carl icahn endorsed me, so many others have endorsed me.|and we're going to put these great business people in charge of trade and when china wants to come and negotiate, they're going to negotiate not with a|political hack which is what they have now. they're going to negotiate with the best business minds in the world and we have them in this country.|so we're going to do a lot of beautiful work. we're going to terminate obamacare. it's going to terminated. it's going to be over|it's going to be repealed and it's going to be replaced. and you're going to have much better health care at a much smaller cost because obamacare |if you look look at the increases in your obamacare. twenty-five, 35, 45, even 55 percent. it's dead. it's not working. we're going to go to a plan|that's going to be so much better and so much less expensive.|so second amendment by the way this is a room loves the second amendment. thank you, fellows. this is a room loves and cherishes the second|amendment. we are going to protect our second amendment. totally|common core is gone. we are getting rid of common core. we're brining education to a local level. the people in this community every time i see them|they want education locally. the parents, the teachers. they want to do it they don't want bureaucrats in washington telling them how to educate|their children.|we spend as a nation more for education per pupil than any other nation in the world. not even close. more per pupil second place doesn't even exist|it's so different. and yet out of 30 countries we're ranked number 30. you have china, you have norway, swenden, denmark and then you have number 30,|the united states. so we spend the most and we're at the bottom of the heap. it's not going to happen anymore, folks. it's not going to happen anymore.|we are going to build our military which i thank because a number of the people came down and a number of the pundits in washington i we love our|military.|we love our military. and by the way we love our police. our police are terrific. we love our police|they are not being treated properly. we're going to build our military so big, so good, so strong, so powerful that nobody is ever going to mess with|us, folks.|and we're going to buy we're going to buy the equipment that our generals, our soldiers, that everybody that's in the know want. we're not buying|equipment that sells because they have political pull . because they take campaign and they give campaign contributions.|we are going to get the equipment that they want, not the equipment that they're told to have by senators and congressmen in washington. we're going to|have great equipment.|and the reason i can say that is i'm self-funding my campaign. i'm not getting millions of dollars from all of these|i'm not getting millions of dollars from all of these special interests and lobbyists and donors that once they get it they literally do whatever the|politicians want. that's not going to happen. and we're going to take care of our vets. we love our vets and they're being treated terribly. we're|taking care of our vets.|so we're now off to nevada and it's a great state. we have great people. we have great people in our nation. no matter where we go i went to mobile,|alabama 35,000 people. we went to oklahoma recently twice 20,000 people, 20,000 people. no matter where we go we fill up the arenas.|over here the other day we had a 9,000 we had a 10,000 we have people. the only thing that stops the crowds are the walls because we can't get|them in. we have to send thousands of people away.|time magazine time magazine last year did an incredible cover story. they said "it's a movement." and that's what it is. it's an incredible movement|with incredible people. incredible people.|it's an incredible movement with incredible people. i tell you. and whether we go honestly whether we go to dallas or whether we go anywhere you say|you go to l.a. you go anywhere you say. our people are incredible. and our theme what's our theme? you know it, right?|our theme which i love may be the greatest theme of all time, right? and the word again eventually is going to come off. we're going to get rid of the|whole theme because what's going to happen make america great again, right?|and the last two weeks because i've gotten to see so many i guess millions when you add them all up with all of these rooms and all of these|speeches. and i've met so many people. but the people are so incredible that i've been saying make america great again and it's going to be greater than|ever before. that's the kind of potential we have. greater then every before.|i dont see how there is any room for misunderstanding or misinterpretation of the statement i made on june 16th during my presidential announcement|speech. here is what i said, and yet this statement is deliberately distorted by the media:|"when mexico sends its people, theyre not sending their best. theyre not sending you . theyre not sending you . theyre sending people that have lots of problems, and theyre bringing those problems|to us. theyre bringing drugs.theyre bringing crime. theyre rapists. and some, i assume, are good people! but i speak to border guards and|they tell us what were getting. and it only makes common sense. theyre sending us not the right people. its coming from more than mexico.|its coming from all over south and latin america, and its coming probably from the middle east. but we dont know. because we have no|protection and we have no competence, we dont know whats happening. and its got to stop and its got to stop fast."|what can be simpler or more accurately stated? the mexican government is forcing their most unwanted people into the united states. they are, in many|cases, criminals, drug dealers, rapists, etc. this was evident just this week when, as an example, a young woman in san francisco was viciously killed|by a 5 time deported mexican with a long criminal record, who was forced back into the united states because they didnt want him in mexico. this is|merely one of thousands of similar incidents throughout the united states. in other words, the worst elements in mexico are being pushed into the united|states by the mexican|government. the largest suppliers of heroin, cocaine and other illicit drugs are mexican cartels that arrange to have mexican immigrants trying to cross|the borders and smuggle in the drugs. the border patrol knows this. likewise, tremendous infectious disease is pouring across the border. the united|states has become a dumping ground for mexico and, in fact, for many other parts of the world. on the other hand, many fabulous people come in from|mexico and our country is better for it. but these people are here legally, and are severely hurt by those coming in illegally. i am proud to say that i|know many hard working mexicansmany of them are working for and with me and, just like our country, my organization is better for it.|the mexican government wants an open border as long as its a one way open border into the united states. not only are they killing us at the|border, but they are killing us on trade and the country of mexico is making billions of dollars in doing so.|i have great respect for mexico and love their people and their peoples great spirit. the problem is, however, that their leaders are far smarter,|more cunning, and better negotiators than ours. to the citizens of the united states, who i will represent far better than anyone else as president, the|mexican government is not our friend and why should they be when the relationship is totally one sided in their favor on both illegal immigration and|trade. i have pointed this out during my speeches and it is something mexico doesnt want me to say. in actuality, it was only after my significant|rise in the polls that univision, previously my friend, went ballistic. i believe that my examples of bad trade deals for the united states was of even|more concern to the mexican government than my talk of border security.|i have lost a lot during this presidential run defending the people of the united states. i have always heard that it is very hard for a successful|person to run for president. macys, nbc, serta and nascar have all taken the weak and very sad position of being politically correct even though|they are wrong in terms of what is good for our country. univision, because 70% of their business comes from mexico, in my opinion, is being dictated to|by the mexican government. the last thing mexico wants is donald trump as president in that i will make great trade deals for the united states and will|have an impenetrable border only legally approved people will come through easily.|interestingly, univision has just announced they are attempting to go public despite very poor and even negative earnings, which is not a good situation|for a successful ipo or high stock pricenot to mention that i am currently suing them for breach of contract. remember, univision is the one who|began this charade in the first place, and they are owned by one of hillary clintons biggest backers. after the speech was made, there were|numerous compliments and indeed, many rave "reviews"there was very little criticism. it wasnt until a week after my announcement that people|started to totally distort these very easy to understand words. if there was something stated incorrectly, it would have been brought up immediately and|with great enthusiasm.|the issues i have addressed, and continue to address, are vital steps to make america great again! additionally, i would be the best jobs president that|god ever created. lets get to work!|trump: this was going to be a speech on hillary clinton and all of the bad things and we all know whats going on, and especially how|poor shed do as president in these very, very troubled times of radical islamic terrorism.|trump: even her former secret service agent, whos seen her under pressure and in times of stress, has stated that she lacks the temperament and|integrity to be our president. there will be plenty of opportunity to discuss these important issues at a later time, and i will deliver that speech|very, very soon.|but today, theres only one thing to discuss, the growing threat of terrorism inside of our borders. the attack on the pulse nightclub in orlando,|florida, was the worst terror strike on our soil since september 11th, and the worst mass shooting in our countrys history.|so many people its just hard to believe, but just so many people dead, so many people gravely injured, so much carnage, such a disgrace. the|horror is beyond description. the families of these wonderful people are totally devastated, and they will be forever. likewise, our whole nation and|indeed the whole world is devastated.|we express our deepest sympathies to the victims, the wounded, and their families. we mourn as one people for our nations loss, and pledge our|support to any and all who need it. i would like to ask now that we all observe a moment of silence for the victims of this attack.|thank you. our nation stands together in solidarity with the members of orlandos lgbt community. they have been through something that nobody could|ever experience. this is a very dark moment in americas history. a radical islamic terrorist targeted the nightclub, not only because he wanted to|kill americans, but in order to execute gay and lesbian citizens, because of their sexual orientation.|its a strike at the heart and soul of who we are as a nation. its an assault on the ability of free people to live their lives, love who they|want, and express their identity. its an attack on the right of every single american to live in peace and safety in their own country.|we need to respond to this attack on america as one united people, with force, purpose, and determination. but the current politically correct response|cripples our ability to talk and to think and act clearly. were not acting clearly, were not talking clearly, weve got problems.|if we dont get tough, and if we dont get smart, and fast, were not going to have our country anymore. there will be nothing, absolutely|nothing, left. the killer, whose name i will not use, or ever say, was born in afghan, of afghan parents, who immigrated to the united states.|his father published support for the afghan taliban, a regime which murders those who dont share its radical views, and they murdered plenty. the|father even said he was running for president of afghanistan. the bottom line is that the only reason the killer was in america in the first place, was|because we allowed his family to come here.|that is a fact, and its a fact we need to talk about. we have a dysfunctional immigration system, which does not permit us to know who we let into|our country, and it does not permit us to protect our citizens properly. we have an incompetent administration.|and if im elected president, that will not change, i will tell you, that will not change over the next four years. we have an administration that|will not change. but if i get in there, its going to change, and its going to change quickly. were going from totally incompetent to just|the opposite, believe me.|trump: thank you.|with 50 people dead and perhaps more ultimately and dozens more wounded, we cannot afford to talk around issues anymore. we have to address these issues|head-on. i called for a ban after san bernardino and was met with great scorn and anger but now many years and i have to say many years but many are|saying that i was right to do so. and although the pause is temporary we must find out what is going on. we have to do it.|it will be lifted this ban when and as a nation were in a position to properly and perfectly screen these people coming into our|country. theyre pouring in and we dont know what were doing. the immigration laws of the united states give the president powers to|suspend entry into the country of any class of persons. now, any class it really is determined and to be determined by the president for the|interests of the united states. and its as he or she deems appropriate. hopefully its he in this case.|thank you. i will use this power to protect the american people. when im elected i will suspend immigration from areas of the world where|theres a proven history of terrorism against the united states, europe or our allies until we fully understand how to end these threats. after a|full |thank you.|and by the way we have no choice. after a full and partial and long really long overdue security assessment we will develop a responsible|immigration policy that serves the interests and values of america.|we cannot continue to allow thousands upon thousands of people to pour into our country many of whom have the same thought process as this savage|killer. many of the principles of radical islam are incompatible with western values and institutions.|remember this, radical islam is anti-woman, anti-gay and anti- american.|i refuse to allow america to become a place where gay people, christian people, jewish people are targets of persecution and intimation by radical|islamic preachers of hate and violence.|this is not just a national security issue. its a quality of life issue. if we want to protect the quality of life for all americans women|and children, gay and straight, jews and christians and all people then we need to tell the truth about radical islam and we need to do it now.|we need to tell the truth also about how radical islam is coming to our shores. and its coming |with these people, folks, its coming. were importing radical islamic terrorism into the west through a failed immigration system and through|an intelligence community held back by our president. even our own fbi director has admitted that we cannot effectively check the backgrounds of people|were letting into america. all of the september 11th hijackists were issued visas. large numbers of somali refugees in minnesota have tried to join|isis.|the boston bombers came here through political asylum. the male shooter in san bernardino again whose name i will not mention was the child of|immigrants from pakistan and he brought his wife, the other terrorist from saudi arabia through another one of our easily exploited visa programs.|trump: immigration from afghanistan into the united states has increased nearly five fold five fold in just one year. according to pew research,|99 percent of the people in afghanistan support oppressive sharia law. we admit many more, and thats just the way it is. we admit many more from|other countries in the region.|and ill tell you what: they share these oppressive views and values. we want to remain a free and open society. then, and if we do, then we have to|control our borders. we have to control, and we have to control them now, not later. right now.|thank you.|yet hillary clinton, for months, and despite so many attacks, repeatedly refused to even say the words radical islam until i challenged her yesterday.|and, guess what, she will probably say them. she sort of has said them, but lets see what happens. she really has no choice, but she doesnt|want to.|however, shes really been forced, and she has been forced to say these words. she supports, and the reason is, she supports so much of what is|wrong, and what is wrong with this country, and whats going wrong with our country and our borders. she has no clue, in my opinion, what radical|islam is and she wont speak honestly about it if she does, in fact, know. shes in total denial, and her continuing reluctance to ever name the|enemy broadcasts weakness across the entire world true weakness.|i dont know if you know this, but just a few weeks before san bernardino, the slaughter, thats all it was was a slaughter, hillary clinton|explained her refusal to say the words "radical islam." here is what she said, exact quote, "muslims are peaceful and tolerant people, and have nothing|whatsoever to do with terrorism." that is hillary clinton.|so, she says the solution is to ban guns. they tried that in france which has among the toughest gun laws anywhere in the world, and 130 people were|brutally murdered by islamic terrorists in cold blood. her plan is to disarm law abiding americans, abolishing the second amendment, and leaving only|the bad guys and terrorists with guns. no good. not going to happen, folks. not going to happen. not going to happen.|thank you.|she wants to take away americans guns and then admit the very people who want to slaughter us. let them come into the country, we dont have|guns. let them come in, let them have all the fun they want.|i will be meeting with the nra, which has given me their earliest endorsement in a presidential race, to discuss how to ensure americans have the means|to protect themselves in this age of terror. i will be always defending the second amendment.|thank you. thank you.|the bottom line is that hillary supports policies that bring the threat of radical islam into american and allow it to grow oversees, and it is growing.|in fact, hillary clintons catastrophic immigration plan will bring vastly more radical islamic immigration into this country, threatening not only|our society but our entire way of life. when it comes to radical islamic terrorism, ignorance is not bliss. its deadly totally deadly.|the obama administration, with the support of hillary clinton and others, has also damaged our security by restraining our intelligence gathering and we|have, just, no intelligence gathering information. we need this information so badly, and he stopped it. we dont have the support. we dont|have the support of the law enforcement system because obama is not letting them do their job. they are not being allowed to do their job. and, they can|do it well better than anybody.|we need a new leader. we need a new leader fast.|trump: thank you.|they have put political correctness above common sense, above your safety, and above all else. i refuse to be politically correct.|i want to do the right thing. i want to straighten things out and i want to make america great again.|the days of deadly ignorance will end, and they will end soon if im elected. as president i will give our intelligence community, law enforcement|and military the tools they need to prevent terrorist attacks. they dont have those tools now.|we need an intelligence gathering system second to none. second to none. that includes better cooperation between state, local and federal officials,|and with our allies, very importantly. i will have an attorney general, a director of national intelligence and a secretary of defense wholl know|how to fight a war on radical islamic terrorism.|and they will have the support that they need to get the job done right, not like it is right now. its not right.|we also must ensure the american people are provided the information they need to understand the threat. the senate subcommittee on immigration has|already identified hundreds of immigrants charged with terrorist activities inside the united states since september 11th. nearly a year ago, the senate|subcommittee asked president obamas department of justice, state and homeland security to provide the immigration history of all terrorists inside|the united states. these departments refused to comply. nobody even knows why. they refused to comply.|president obama must release the full and complete immigration histories of all individuals implicated in terrorist activities of any kind since|september 11th. so important. the public has a right to know how these people got here, how they came on to this great land, why are they here?|we have to screen applicants to know whether they are affiliated with or supporting radical groups and beliefs, very simple. we have to control the|amount of future immigration into this country and we have to prevent large pockets of radicalization from forming inside america. not complicated.|every and just think of this. take a look. every single event, even a single individual can be devastating, and all you have to do is take a look|at what happened in orlando and what happened in other cases. just a single event. and just one person. can you imagine what theyll do in large|groups, which were allowing now to come here.|truly our president doesnt know what hes doing. hes failed us and hes failed us badly. under his leadership this situation will not|get any better, it will only get worse. and ive been saying that for a long time. each year the united states permanently admits 100,000 immigrants|from the middle east and many more from muslim countries outside of the middle east. our government has been admitting ever- growing numbers, year after|year, without any effective plan for our own security.|in fact, clintons state department was in charge of admissions and the admissions process for people applying to enter from overseas. having|learned nothing from these attacks, she now plans to massively increase admissions without a screening plan including a 500 percent increase in syrian|refugees coming into our country. tell me, tell me how stupid is that?|this could be a better, bigger, more horrible version than the legendary trojan horse ever was. altogether, under the clinton plan, youd be|admitting hundreds of thousands of refugees from the middle east with no system to vet them, or to prevent the radicalization of the children and their|children. not only their children, by the way, theyre trying to take over our children and convince them how wonderful isis is and how wonderful|islam is and we dont know whats happening.|trump: the burden is on hillary clinton to tell us why she believes immigration from these dangerous countries should be increased without any effective|system to really to screen. were not screening people.|so why dont we have an effective screening system? we dont. were being laughed at all over the world. the burden is on hillary clinton to|tell us why we should admit anyone into our country who supports violence of any kind against gay and lesbian americans. the burden is on hillary|clinton to tell us how she will pay for it, her plan will cost hundreds of billions of dollars long term.|wouldnt this be money better spent rebuilding america for our current population including the many poor people already living here. we have|cities, we have inner cities |we have poverty all over and this is how were spending billions of dollars. we have to stop the tremendous flow of syrian refugees into the united|states. we dont know who they are, they have no documentation and we dont know what theyre planning and we wont unless we have|proper supervisor and proper leadership in which case theyre out of here. what i want |what i want is common sense. i want a mainstream immigration policy that promotes american values. thats a choice i put before the american people.|a mainstream immigration policy designed to benefit america or hillary clintons radical immigration policy designed to benefit politically correct|special interests. thats all it is. weve got to get smart and tough and vigilant and weve got to do it now because later is too late|going to be too late for our country.|the media talks about home grown terrorism but islamic radicalism and thats a very, very important term a term that the president refuses to|use and the networks that nurture it are imports from overseas whether you like it or whether you dont like it. yes, there are many radicalized|people already inside our country as a result of poor policies of the past.|but the whole point is that we will be much, much and it will be easier to deal with our current problem if we dont keep on bringing people who add|to the problem. and thats what theyre doing. were letting all of these people hundreds of thousands of people come in and all|theyre doing is adding to this incredible problem we have.|for instance, the controversial mosque attended by the boston bombers had at its founder and as its founder an immigrant from overseas charged in an|assassination plot. this shooter and amazingly in orlando was the child of an immigrant father who supported one of the most repressive regimes on|earth. why would we admit people who support violent hatred?|hillary clinton can never claim to be a friend of the gay community as long as she continues to support immigration policies that bring islamic|extremists to our country and who suppress women, gays and anyone who doesnt share their views or values.|she cant have it both ways. she cant claim to be supportive of these communities while trying to increase the number of people coming in who|want to oppress these same communities. how does this kind of immigration make our lives better? how does this kind of immigration make our country|better? why does hillary clinton want to bring people in in vast numbers who reject our values? why? explain.|ask yourself who is really the friend of women and the lgbt community, donald trump with actions or hillary clinton with her words?|trump: i will tell you who the better friend is and some day i believe that will be proven out bigly .|and by the way the lgbt community is just whats happened to them is just so sad and to be thinking about where their policies are currently|with this administration is a disgrace to that community, i will tell you right now.|clinton wants to allow radical islamic terrorists to pour into our country. they enslave women, and they murder gays. i dont want them in our|country.|immigration is a privilege, and we should not let anyone into this country who doesnt support our communities. all of our communities, every single|one of them. americans already admitted four times more immigrants than any country on earth, anybody in the world. four times more. at least, because|we dont even know whos coming in. and we continue to admit millions more with no real checks or scrutiny.|not surprisingly, wages for our workers havent budged. in almost 20 years. you wonder why we get the crowds, you wonder why we get this tremendous|support, you wonder why ive gotten more votes than any republican in any primary in the history of the republican party? take a look at that. take|a look at your security, take a look at the wages. for 18 years theyve been stagnant, theyve even gone down.|so whether its a matter of national security, or financial security, we cant afford to keep on going like this. cannot afford it. we owe $19|trillion in debt. and no longer have any options. our communities from all backgrounds are ready for some relief. this is not an act of offense against|anyone. its really an act of defense. i want us all, all of us, to work together. we have to form a partnership, with our muslim communities. we|have muslim communities in this country that are great, and we have to form that partnership.|now, the muslim community, so important. they have to work with us. they have to cooperate with law enforcement and turn in the people who they know are|bad. they know it. and they have to do it, and they have to do it forthwith. i want to fix our schools. i want to fix our bridges. and our jobs market,|were going to have it rocket again, were going to make great trade deals. but i want every american to succeed including muslims.|but the muslims have to work with us. they have to work with us. they know whats going on. they know that he was bad. they knew the people in san|bernardino were bad. but you know what? they didnt turn them in. and you know what? we had death, and destruction.|hillary clinton wants to empty out the treasury to bring people into the country that include individuals who preach hate against our citizens. i want|to protect our citizens, all of our citizens. the terrorist attack on pulse nightclub demands a full and complete investigation into every single aspect|of the assault. in san bernardino, as an example, people who knew what was going on, they knew exactly, but they used the excuse of racial profiling for|not reporting it. they said oh, "we thought so but we didnt want to use racial profiling." which was probably an excuse given to them by their|lawyer, so they dont get in trouble.|we need to know what the killer discussed with his relatives, parents, friends and associates. we need to know if he was affiliated with any radical|mosques or radical activists and what, if any, is their immigration status. we have to know, and we have to know fast. we need to know if he traveled|anywhere and who he traveled with. we need to know, and we need to make sure, every single last person involved in this plan, including anyone who knew|something but didnt tell us, is brought to justice, so when people know whats going on and they dont tell us, and we have an attack, and|people die, these people have to have consequences. big consequences.|america must do more much more to protect its citizens, especially people who are potential victims of crimes based on their backgrounds or|sexual orientation, as you just saw in orlando.|trump: it also means we must change our foreign policy. the decision to overthrow the regime in libya, then pushing for the overthrow of the regime in|syria, among other things, without plans for the day after, have created space for isis to expand and grow like nobody has ever seen before.|these actions, along with our disastrous iran deal, have also reduced our ability to work in partnership with our muslim allies in the region. that is|why our new goal must be to defeat islamic terrorism not nation building. no more nation building. its never going to work.|and by the way weve spent almost $5 trillion over the years on trying to nation build in the middle east and it has been complete and total|disaster. were further away now than we were 15 years ago. for instance, the last major nato mission was hillary clintons war in libya. that|mission helped to unleash isis on a new continent.|ive said nato need to change its focus and stop terrorism. we have to focus on terrorism and we have to stop terrorism. since ive raised that|criticism and its ok. ive gotten no credit for it but these are minor details nato has since announced a new initiative front page|of the wall street journal four days ago focused on just that. america must unite the whole civilized world in the fight against islamic terrorism.|pretty much like we did with communism during the cold war. we tried it president obamas way, doesnt work. he gave the world his apology tour.|we got isis and many other problems in return. thats what we got. remember the famous apology tour. were sorry for everything.|id like to conclude my remarks today by again expressing our solitarily with the people of orlando who have come under this horrific attack. when|im president i pledge to protect and defend all americans who live inside our borders. wherever they come from, wherever they were born, i|dont care. all americans living here and following our laws not other laws will be protected.|thank you. thank you. were going to be tough and were going to be smart and were going to do it right. america will be a tolerant and|open society. america will also be a safe society. we will protect our borders at home. we will defeat isis overseas. we have no choice. we will ensure|every parent can raise their children in peace and safety. we will make america rich again. we will make america safe again. we will make america great|again. thank you. thank you very much. thank you very much.|thank you. thank you very much, everybody. appreciate it. thank you.|good evening. thank you very much. i speak to you today as a lifelong supporter and true friend of israel. i am a newcomer to politics but not to|backing the jewish state.|in late 2001, weeks after the attacks on new york city, and on washington, and frankly the attacks on all of us, attacks that perpetrated and they|were perpetrated by the islamic fundamentalists, mayor rudy giuliani visited israel to show solidarity with terror victims. i sent my plane because i|backed the mission for israel 100 percent.|in spring of 2004, at the height of the violence in the gaza strip, i was the grand marshal of the 40th salute to israel parade, the largest single|gathering in support of the jewish state. it was a very dangerous time for israel and frankly for anyone supporting israel, many people turned down this|honor. i did not. i took the risk and im glad i did.|but i didnt come here tonight to pander to you about israel. thats what politicians do. all talk, no action, believe me. i came here to speak|to you about where i stand on the future of american relations with our strategic ally, our unbreakable friendship, and our cultural brother. the only|democracy in the middle east, the state of israel.|my number one priority is to dismantle the disastrous deal with iran. i have been in business a long time. i know deal-making and let me tell you, this|deal is catastrophic, for america, for israel, and for the whole of the middle east.|the problem here is fundamental. we have rewarded the worlds leading state sponsor of terror with $150 billion dollars, and we received absolutely|nothing in return.|ive studied this issue in great detail. i would say actually, greater by far than anybody else. believe me, and its a bad deal. the biggest|concern with the deal is not necessarily that iran is going to violate it, because already, as you know, it has. the bigger problem is that they can|keep the terms and still get the bomb by simply running out the clock. and of course, theyll keep the billions and billions of dollars that we so|stupidly and foolishly gave them.|the deal doesnt even require iran to dismantle its military nuclear capability. yes, it places limits on its military nuclear program for only a|certain number of years. but when those restrictions expire, iran will have an industrial size military nuclear capability ready to go, and with zero|provision for delay, no matter how bad irans behavior is. terrible, terrible situation that we are all placed in, and especially israel.|when im president, i will adopt a strategy that focuses on three things when it comes to iran. first, we will stand up to irans aggressive|push to destabilize and dominate the region. iran is a very big problem and will continue to be, but if im not elected president, i know how to|deal with trouble, and believe me, thats why im going to be elected president folks. and we are leading in every poll, remember that please.|iran is a problem in iraq, a problem in syria, a problem in lebanon, a problem in yemen, and will be a very, very major problem for saudi arabia.|literally every day, iran provides more and better weapons to support their puppet states. hezbollah, lebanon received, and ill tell you what, it|has received sophisticated anti-ship weapons, anti-aircraft weapons, and gps systems and rockets. like very few people anywhere in the world, and|certainly very few countries have.|now theyre in syria trying to establish another front against israel from the syrian side of the golan heights. in gaza, iran is supporting hamas|and islamic jihad. and in the west bank theyre openly offering palestinians $7,000 per terror attack and $30,000 for every palestinian|terrorists home thats been destroyed. a deplorable, deplorable situation. iran is financing military forces throughout the middle east, and|its absolutely incredible that we handed them over $150 billion to do even more toward the many horrible acts of terror.|secondly, we will totally dismantle irans global terror network, which is big and powerful, but not powerful like us. iran has seeded terror groups|all over the world. during the last five years, iran has perpetrated terror attacks in 25 different countries on five continents. theyve got terror|cells everywhere, including in the western hemisphere very close to home. iran is the biggest sponsor of terrorism around the world and we will work to|dismantle that reach, believe me, believe me.|third, at the very least, we must enforce the terms of the previous deal, to hold iran totally accountable. and we will enforce it like youve never|seen a contract enforced before folks. believe me.|iran has already since the deal is in place, test-fired ballistic missiles three times. those ballistic missiles with a range of 1,250 miles were|designed to intimidate not only israel, which is only 600 miles away, but also intended to frighten europe, and maybe someday hit even the united|states. and were not going to let that happen. were not letting it happen, and were not letting it happen to israel, believe me.|do you want to hear something really shocking? as many of the great people in this room know, painted on those missiles in both hebrew and farsi, were|the words "israel must be wiped off the face of the earth." you can forget that!|what kind of demented minds write that in hebrew? and heres, you talk about twisted, heres another twisted part: testing these missiles does|not even violate the horrible deal that we made! the deal is silent on test missiles, but those tests do violate united nations security council|resolutions. the problem is, no one has done anything about it. we will, we will, i promise we will.|which brings me to my next point. the utter weakness and incompetence of the united nations. the united nations is not a friend of democracy. its|not a friend to freedom. its not a friend even to the united states of america, where as you know, it has its home. and it surely is not a friend|to israel.|with president obama in his final year, yay! he may be the worst thing to ever happen to israel, believe me. believe me, and you know it, and you know|it better than anybody.|so with the president in his final year, discussions have been swirling about an attempt to bring a security council resolution on terms of an eventual|agreement between israel and palestine. let me be clear. an agreement imposed by the united nations would be a total and complete disaster. the united|states must oppose this resolution and use the power of our veto, which i will use as president, 100 percent.|when people ask why, its because thats not how you make a deal. deals are made when parties come together. they come to a table and they|negotiate. each side must give up something it values, i mean we have to do something where theres value in exchange for something that it|requires. thats what a deal is. a deal is really something that when we impose it on israel and palestine, we bring together a group of people that|come up with something. thats not going to happen with the united nations. it will only further, very importantly, it will only further|delegitimize israel. it will be a catastrophe and a disaster for israel. its not going to happen folks.|and further, it would reward palestinian terrorism, because every day theyre stabbing israelis, and even americans. just last week, american taylor|allen force, a west point grad, phenomenol young person who served in iraq and afghanistan, was murdered in the street by a knife-wielding palestinian.|you dont reward behavior like that. you can not do it! there is only one way you treat that kind of behavior. you have to confront it!|so, its not up the united nations to go with a solution. its really the parties that must negotiate a resolution themselves. you have no|choice. they have to do it themselves, or it will never hold up anyway. the united states can be useful as a facilitator of negotiations, but no one|should be telling israel that it must abide by some agreement made by others thousands of miles away that dont even really know whats|happening to israel, to anything in the area. its so preposterous. were not going to let that happen. when im president, believe me, i|will veto any attempt by the un to impose its will on the jewish state. it will be vetoed 100 percent.|you see, i know about deal-making. thats what i do. i wrote the art of the deal. one of the best-selling, all-time, and i mean seriously,|im saying one of, because ill be criticized as though i say the, so im going to be very diplomatic. one of |ill be criticized. i think it is number one, but why take a chance. one of the best-selling, all-time books about deals and deal making.|to make a great deal, you need two willing participants. we know israel is willing to deal. israel has been trying to sit down at the negotiating table|without pre-conditions for years. you had camp david in 2000, where prime minister barak made an incredible offer, maybe even too generous. arafat|rejected it. in 2008, prime minister olmert made an equally generous offer. the palestinian authority rejected it also. then john kerry tried to come up|with a framework and abbas didnt even respond, not even to the secretary of state of the united states of america. they didnt even respond.|when i become president, the days of treating israel like a second-class citizen will end on day one. and when i say something, i mean it. i mean it. i|will meet with prime minister netanyahu immediately. i have known him for many years and well be able to work closely together to help bring|stability and peace to israel and to the entire region.|meanwhile, every single day, you have rampant incitement and children being taught to hate israel and hate the jews. it has to stop. when you live in a|society where the firefighters are the heros, little kids want to be firefighters. when you live in a society where athletes and movie stars are|the heroes, little kids want to be athletes and movie stars. in palestinian society, the heroes are those who murder jews. we cant let this|continue. we cant let this happen any longer.|you cannot achieve peace if terrorists are treated as martyrs. glorifying terrorists is a tremendous barrier to peace. it is a horrible, horrible way to|think. its a barrier that cant be broken. that will end, and itll end soon, believe me. in palestinian textbooks and mosques, youve|got a culture of hatred that has been fermenting there for years, and if we want to achieve peace, theyve got to go out, and theyve got to|start this educational process. they have to end education of hatred. they have to end it, and now!|there is no moral equivalency. israel does not name public squares after terrorists. israel does not pay its children to stab random palestinians. you|see, what president obama gets wrong about deal making is that he constantly applies pressure to our friends and rewards our enemies. and you see that|happening all the time. that pattern practiced by the president and his administration, including former secretary of state, hillary clinton, who is a|total disaster by the way. she and president obama have treated israel very, very badly. but its repeated itself over and over again, and has done|nothing to embolden those who hate america. we saw that with releasing the $150 billion dollars to iran in the hope that they would magically join the|world community. it didnt happen.|president obama thinks that applying pressure to israel will force the issue, but its precisely the opposite that happened. already, half of the|population of palestine has been taken over by the palestinian isis in hamas, and the other half refuses to confront the first half, so its a very|difficult situation thats never going to get solved, unless you have great leadership right here in the united states. well get it solved, one way|or the other. we will get it solved. but when the united states stands with israel, the chances of peace really rise, and rises exponentially.|thats what will happen when donald trump is president of the united states.|we will move the american embassy to the eternal capital of the jewish people, jerusalem. and we will send a clear signal that there is no daylight|between america and our most reliable ally, the state of israel. the palestinians must come to the table knowing that the bond between the united states|and israel is absolutely, totally unbreakable. they must come to the table willing and able to stop the terror being committed on a daily basis against|israel. they must do that. and they must come to the table willing to accept that israel is a jewish state and it will forever exist as a jewish state.|i love the people in this room. i love israel. i love israel. ive been with israel so long in terms of, ive received some of my greatest|honors from israel. my father before me, incredible. my daughter ivanka is about to have a beautiful jewish baby. in fact it could be happening right|now which would be very nice as far as im concerned.|so i want to thank you very much. this has been a truly great honor. thank you everybody. thank you. thank you very much.|wow. thank you very much. hello. id like to begin by thanking the people of montana, south dakota, new mexico, new jersey and california. we had|some big, big days and we have some big numbers coming in, very big numbers.|im truly honored by your support. together, we accomplished what nobody thought was absolutely possible and you know what that is and were|only getting started and its going to be beautiful, remember that.|tonight we close one chapter in history and we begin another. our campaign received more primary votes than any gop campaign in history, no matter who|it is, no matter who they are, we received more votes. this is a great feeling. thats a great feeling.|this is not a testament to me but a testament to all of the people who believed real change, not obama change, but real change is possible. youve|given me the honor to lead the republican party to victory this fall. were going to do it. were going to do it, folks. were going to do|i understand the responsibility of carrying the mantle and i will never, ever let you down too much work, too many people, blood, sweat and tears.|im never going to let you down. i will make you proud of your party and our movement, and thats what it is, is a movement.|now recent polls have shown that im beating hillary clinton and with all of her many problems and the tremendous mistakes that shes made and|she has tremendous mistakes, we expect our lead to continue to grow and grow substantially. to everyone who voted for me throughout this campaign, i|want to thank you. i want to thank you very, very much.|to those who voted for someone else in either party, i will work hard to earn your support and i will work very hard to earn that support. to all of|those bernie sanders voters who have been left out in the cold by a rigged system of super delegates, we welcome you with open arms. and by the way, the|terrible trade deals that bernie was so vehemently against and hes right on that will be taken care of far better than anyone ever thought possible|and thats what i do. we are going to have fantastic trade deals. were going to start making money and bringing in jobs.|now i know some people say im too much of a fighter. my preference is always peace, however and ive shown that. ive shown that for a long|time. i built an extraordinary business on relationships and deals that benefit all parties involved, always. my goal is always again to bring people|together. but if im forced to fight for something i really care about, i will never, ever back down and our country will never, ever back down.|thank you. ive fought for my family. ive fought for my business. ive fought for my employees. and now, im going to fight for you,|the american people like nobody has ever fought before. and im not a politician fighting, im me. youre going to see some real good things|happen.|just remember this: im going to be your champion. im going to be americas champion because you see this election isnt about|republican or democrat; its about who runs this country the special interests or the people and i mean the american people.|every election year politicians promise change. obama promised change and it didnt work out too well. and every year they fail to deliver. why|would politicians want to change a system thats totally rigged in order to keep them in power? thats what theyre doing, folks. why would|politicians want to change a system thats made them and their friends very, very wealthy? i beat a rigged system by winning with overwhelming|support, the only way you couldve done it landslides all over the country with every demographic on track to win; 37 primary caucus victories|in a field that began with 17 very talented people.|after years of disappointment, there is one thing we all have learned we cant fix the rigged system by relying on very, and i mean this so,|so strongly, on the very people who rigged it, and they rigged it, and do not ever think anything differently. we cant solve our problems by|counting on the politicians who created our problems.|the clintons have turned the politics of personal enrichment into an art form for themselves. theyve made hundreds of millions of dollars selling|access, selling favors, selling government contracts, and i mean hundreds of millions of dollars. secretary clinton even did all of the work on a|totally illegal private server. something about how shes getting away with this folks nobody understands.|designed to keep her corrupt dealings out of the public record, putting the security of the entire country at risk and a president in a corrupt system|is totally protecting her not right. i am going to give a major speech on probably monday of next week and were going to be discussing all of|the things that have taken place with the clintons. i think youre going to find it very informative and very, very interesting. i wonder if the|press will want to attend, who knows.|hillary clinton turned the state department into her private hedge fund the russians, the saudis, the chinese all gave money to bill and|hillary and got favorable treatment in return. its a sad day in america when foreign governments with deep pockets have more influence in our own|country than our great citizens.|i didnt need to do this. its not easy, believe me. i didnt need to do it. but i felt i had to give back to our wonderful country which|has been so good to me and to my family. ive traveled to many of our states and seen the suffering in peoples eyes. ive visited|communities in new york, new jersey, pennsylvania, connecticut, indiana and ohio whose manufacturing jobs, they literally, these jobs have virtually|disappeared, an embarrassment to our country and its horrible. ive embraced the victims of illegal immigration, moms and dads who have had to|bury their own children because of people that shouldnt have been in the country remember it, folks, remember it.|i visited the crumbling cities and the struggling schools. ive seen our dilapidated airports, highways, bridges and ive compared them to other|countries where we see facilities so far superior to ours its really not to be believed, hard to imagine whats happened to our country.|america is getting taken apart piece by piece, auctioned off, and just rapidly, auctioned off to the highest bidder. were broke, were broke.|we owe $19 trillion dollars going quickly to $21 trillion. our infrastructure is a disaster. our schools are failing. crime is rising. people are|scared. the last thing we need is hillary clinton in the white house or an extension of the obama disaster.|what a crowd, what a crowd. thank you all very much. we love our country, we love our country. but we can turn this all around. were going to do it|by putting america first. that commitment is the foundation for change thats been missing and its been missing for a long time. its|important to understand what america first means. it means on foreign policy we will never enter into any kind conflict unless it makes us safer as a|nation. it has to make us safer as a nation. this is the opposite of hillarys foreign policy which invaded libya, destabilized iraq, unleashed isis|and threw syria into chaos and created the mass migration which is wreaking havoc all over the world, and while putting iran on the path to nuclear|weapons and making them a dominant power in the middle east and they are dominant and we have made them that way, folks. we have made them that way.|you better hope im president. on trade, america first means the american worker will have his or her job protected from unfair foreign competition.|whats happening there is absolutely a disgrace. no ppp, youre right about that and you mean no pp. we are going, and remember this; we are|only going to have great trade deals, ok. we are only going to have that. were not going to approve, as somebody just said, the transpacific|partnership which is a disaster, a disaster, for our country, almost as bad as nafta signed by bill clinton, which has just stripped our country of our|factories and our manufacturing and moved them to other places, in particular mexico. if its not a great deal for our country, we will not sign it.|its got to be great for our country, for our community, for everybody in here because believe me we are all suffering and were suffering bigly|and its getting worse.|on energy policy, america first means opening up americas great potential to bring wealth and prosperity to our own workers including our wonderful|and hard-working miners who have been absolutely totally mistreated by this administration.|on economic policy, america first means having tax and regulatory policies that keep jobs and wealth in the united states, substantially lowering taxes|for middle class americans and business; likewise, regulation which is strangling our economy which would be brought down from its present insane level.|we will make it very, very good for our companies, for our small business and for people that want to survive and do well in our country.|on immigration policy, america first means protecting the jobs, wages and security of american workers, whether first or tenth generation. no matter who|you are, were going to protect your job because let me tell you our jobs are being stripped from our country like were babies. the beauty of|america first is that it brings us all together. every american worker of every background is entitled to the same benefits, protections and rights and|privileges; its got to be that way. now, the people in charge say things cant change. im here today to tell you that we have to change.|we have no choice. we have to change.|were going to put america back to work. were going to make our own products. were going to put america back to work. were going to|rebuild our inner cities which are absolutely a shame and so sad. were going to take care of our african american people that have been mistreated|for so long. were going to make you and your family safe, secure and prosperous, prosperous again. together, we will put the american people first|again, first again.|we will make our communities wealthy. we will make our cities safe again. we will make our country strong again. ladies and gentlemen, we will make|america great again, remember. thank you. thank you very much everybody.|thank you for joining me today.|this was going to be a speech on hillary clinton and how bad a president, especially in these times of radical islamic terrorism, she would be.|even her former secret service agent, who has seen her under pressure and in times of stress, has stated that she lacks the temperament and integrity to|be president.|there will be plenty of opportunity to discuss these important issues at a later time, and i will deliver that speech soon.|but today there is only one thing to discuss: the growing threat of terrorism inside of our borders.|the attack on the pulse nightclub in orlando, florida, was the worst terrorist strike on our soil since september 11th, and the worst mass shooting in|our countrys history.|so many people dead, so many people gravely injured, so much carnage, such a disgrace.|the horror is beyond description.|the families of these wonderful people are totally devastated. likewise, our whole nation, and indeed the whole world, is devastated.|we express our deepest sympathies to the victims, the wounded, and their families.|we mourn, as one people, for our nations loss and pledge our support to any and all who need it.|i would like to ask now that we all observe a moment of silence for the victims of the attack.|our nation stands together in solidarity with the members of orlando's lgbt community.|this is a very dark moment in americas history.|a radical islamic terrorist targeted the nightclub not only because he wanted to kill americans, but in order to execute gay and lesbian citizens|because of their sexual orientation.|it is a strike at the heart and soul of who we are as a nation.|it is an assault on the ability of free people to live their lives, love who they want and express their identity.|it is an attack on the right of every single american to live in peace and safety in their own country.|we need to respond to this attack on america as one united people with force, purpose and determination.|but the current politically correct response cripples our ability to talk and think and act clearly.|if we don't get tough, and we don't get smart and fast we're not going to have a country anymore there will be nothing left.|the killer, whose name i will not use, or ever say, was born to afghan parents who immigrated to the united states. his father published support for the|afghan taliban, a regime which murders those who dont share its radical views. the father even said he was running for president of that country.|the bottom line is that the only reason the killer was in america in the first place was because we allowed his family to come here.|that is a fact, and it's a fact we need to talk about.|we have a dysfunctional immigration system which does not permit us to know who we let into our country, and it does not permit us to protect our|citizens.|we have an incompetent administration, and if i am not elected president, that will not change over the next four years but it must change, and it|must change now.|with fifty people dead, and dozens more wounded, we cannot afford to talk around the issue anymore we have to address it head on.|i called for a ban after san bernardino, and was met with great scorn and anger but now, many are saying i was right to do so and although the pause|is temporary, we must find out what is going on. the ban will be lifted when we as a nation are in a position to properly and perfectly screen those|people coming into our country.|the immigration laws of the united states give the president the power to suspend entry into the country of any class of persons that the president|deems detrimental to the interests or security of the united states, as he deems appropriate.|i will use this power to protect the american people. when i am elected, i will suspend immigration from areas of the world when there is a proven|history of terrorism against the united states, europe or our allies, until we understand how to end these threats.|after a full, impartial and long overdue security assessment, we will develop a responsible immigration policy that serves the interests and values of|america.|we cannot continue to allow thousands upon thousands of people to pour into our country, many of whom have the same thought process as this savage|killer.|many of the principles of radical islam are incompatible with western values and institutions.|radical islam is anti-woman, anti-gay and anti-american.|i refuse to allow america to become a place where gay people, christian people, and jewish people, are the targets of persecution and intimidation by|radical islamic preachers of hate and violence.|its not just a national security issue. it is a quality of life issue.|if we want to protect the quality of life for all americans women and children, gay and straight, jews and christians and all people then we|need to tell the truth about radical islam.|we need to tell the truth, also, about how radical islam is coming to our shores.|we are importing radical islamic terrorism into the west through a failed immigration system and through an intelligence community held back by our|president.|even our own fbi director has admitted that we cannot effectively check the backgrounds of the people we are letting into america.|all of the september 11th hijackers were issued visas.|large numbers of somali refugees in minnesota have tried to join isis.|the boston bombers came here through political asylum.|the male shooter in san bernardino again, whose name i won't mention was the child of immigrants from pakistan, and he brought his wife |the other terrorist - from saudi arabia, through another one of our easily exploited visa programs.|immigration from afghanistan into the united states has increased nearly five-fold in just one year. according to pew research, 99% of people in|afghanistan support oppressive sharia law.|we admit many more from other countries in the region who share these same oppressive views.|if we want to remain a free and open society, then we have to control our borders.|yet, hillary clinton for months and despite so many attacks repeatedly refused to even say the words "radical islam," until i challenged her|yesterday to say the words or leave the race.|however, hillary clinton who has been forced to say the words today after policies she supports have caused us so much damage still has no|clue what radical islam is, and wont speak honestly about what it is.|she is in total denial, and her continuing reluctance to ever name the enemy broadcasts weakness across the world.|in fact, just a few weeks before the san bernardino slaughter, hillary clinton explained her refusal to say the words radical islam. here is what she|said: "muslims are peaceful and tolerant people, and have nothing whatsoever to do with terrorism."|hillary clinton says the solution is to ban guns. they tried that in france, which has among the toughest gun laws in the world, and 130 were brutally|murdered by islamic terrorists in cold blood. her plan is to disarm law-abiding americans, abolishing the 2nd amendment, and leaving only the bad guys|and terrorists with guns. she wants to take away americans guns, then admit the very people who want to slaughter us.|i will be meeting with the nra, which has given me their earliest endorsement in a presidential race, to discuss how to ensure americans have the means|to protect themselves in this age of terror.|the bottom line is that hillary supports the policies that bring the threat of radical islam into america, and allow it to grow overseas.|in fact, hillary clintons catastrophic immigration plan will bring vastly more radical islamic immigration into this country, threatening not only|our security but our way of life.|when it comes to radical islamic terrorism, ignorance is not bliss it's deadly.|the obama administration, with the support of hillary clinton and others, has also damaged our security by restraining our intelligence-gathering and|failing to support law enforcement. they have put political correctness above common sense, above your safety, and above all else.|i refuse to be politically correct.|i will do the right thing i want to straighten things out and to make america great again.|the days of deadly ignorance will end, and they will end soon.|as president i will give our intelligence community, law enforcement and military the tools they need to prevent terrorist attacks.|we need an intelligence-gathering system second to none. that includes better cooperation between state, local and federal officials and with our|allies.|i will have an attorney general, a director of national intelligence, and a secretary of defense who will know how to fight the war on radical islamic|terrorism and who will have the support they require to get the job done.|we also must ensure the american people are provided the information they need to understand the threat.|the senate subcommittee on immigration has already identified hundreds of immigrants charged with terrorist activities inside the united states since|september 11th.|nearly a year ago, the senate subcommittee asked president obama's departments of justice, state and homeland security to provide the immigration|history of all terrorists inside the united states.|these departments refused to comply.|president obama must release the full and complete immigration histories of all individuals implicated in terrorist activity of any kind since 9/11.|the public has a right to know how these people got here.|we have to screen applicants to know whether they are affiliated with, or support, radical groups and beliefs.|we have to control the amount of future immigration into this country to prevent large pockets of radicalization from forming inside america.|even a single individual can be devastating, just look at what happened in orlando. can you imagine large groups?|truly, our president doesn't know what he is doing. he has failed us, and failed us badly, and under his leadership, this situation will not get any|better it will only get worse.|each year, the united states permanently admits more than 100,000 immigrants from the middle east, and many more from muslim countries outside the|middle east. our government has been admitting ever-growing numbers, year after year, without any effective plan for our security.|in fact, clinton's state department was in charge of the admissions process for people applying to enter from overseas.|having learned nothing from these attacks, she now plans to massively increase admissions without a screening plan, including a 500% increase in syrian|refugees.|this could be a better, bigger version of the legendary trojan horse.|we can't let this happen.|altogether, under the clinton plan, you'd be admitting hundreds of thousands of refugees from the middle east with no system to vet them, or to prevent|the radicalization of their children.|the burden is on hillary clinton to tell us why she believes immigration from these dangerous countries should be increased without any effective system|to screen who we are bringing in.|the burden is on hillary clinton to tell us why we should admit anyone into our country who supports violence of any kind against gay and lesbian|americans.|the burden is also on hillary clinton to tell us how she will pay for it. her plan will cost americans hundreds of billions of dollars long-term.|wouldn't this money be better spent on rebuilding america for our current population, including the many poor people already living here?|we have to stop the tremendous flow of syrian refugees into the united states we don't know who they are, they have no documentation, and we don't|know what they're planning.|what i want is common sense. i want a mainstream immigration policy that promotes american values.|that is the choice i put before the american people: a mainstream immigration policy designed to benefit america, or hillary clinton's radical|immigration policy designed to benefit politically-correct special interests.|we've got to get smart, and tough, and vigilant, and we've got to do it now, because later is too late.|the media talks about "homegrown," terrorism, but islamic radicalism, and the networks that nurture it, are imports from overseas.|yes, there are many radicalized people already inside our country as a result of the poor policies of the past. but the whole point is that it will be|much, much easier to deal with our current problem if we dont keep on bringing in people who add to the problem.|for instance, the controversial mosque attended by the boston bombers had as its founder an immigrant from overseas charged in an assassination plot.|this shooter in orlando was the child of an immigrant father who supported one of the most repressive regimes on earth. why would we admit people who|support violent hatred?|hillary clinton can never claim to be a friend of the gay community as long as she continues to support immigration policies that bring islamic|extremists to our country who suppress women, gays and anyone who doesnt share their views.|she cant have it both ways. she cant claim to be supportive of these communities while trying to increase the number of people coming in who|want to oppress them.|how does this kind of immigration make our life better? how does this kind of immigration make our country better?|why does hillary clinton want to bring people herein vast numberswho reject our values?|ask yourself, who is really the friend of women and the lgbt community, donald trump with his actions, or hillary clinton with her words? clinton wants|to allow radical islamic terrorists to pour into our countrythey enslave women, and murder gays.|i dont want them in our country.|immigration is a privilege, and we should not let anyone into this country who doesnt support our communities all of our communities.|america has already admitted four times more immigrants than any country on earth, and we continue to admit millions more with no real checks or|scrutiny.|not surprisingly, wages for our workers havent budged in many years.|so whether its matter of national security, or financial security, we cant afford to keep on going like this. we owe $19 trillion in debt, and|no longer have options.|all our communities, from all backgrounds, are ready for some relief. this is not an act of offense against anyone; it is an act of defense.|i want us all to work together, including in partnership with our muslim communities. but muslim communities must cooperate with law enforcement and|turn in the people who they know are bad and they do know where they are.|i want to fix our schools, roads, bridges and job market. i want every american to succeed. hillary clinton wants to empty out the treasury to bring|people into the country that include individuals who preach hate against our own citizens.|i want to protect our citizens all of our citizens.|the terrorist attack on the pulse night club demands a full and complete investigation into every aspect of the assault.|in san bernardino, as an example, people knew what was going on, but they used the excuse of racial profiling for not reporting it.|we need to know what the killer discussed with his relatives, parents, friends and associates.|we need to know if he was affiliated with any radical mosques or radical activists and what, if any, is their immigration status.|we need to know if he travelled anywhere, and who he travelled with.|we need to make sure every single last person involved in this plan including anyone who knew something but didn't tell us is brought to|justice.|if it can be proven that somebody had information about any attack, and did not give this information to authorities, they must serve prison time .|america must do more much more to protect its citizens, especially people who are potential victims of crimes based on their backgrounds or|sexual orientations.|it also means we must change our foreign policy.|the decision to overthrow the regime in libya, then pushing for the overthrow of the regime in syria, among other things, without plans for the day|after, have created space for isis to expand and grow.|these actions, along with our disastrous iran deal, have also reduced our ability to work in partnership with our muslim allies in the region.|that is why our new goal must be to defeat islamic terrorism, not nation-building.|for instance, the last major nato mission was hillary clinton's war in libya. that mission helped unleash isis on a new continent.|i've said nato needs to change its focus to stopping terrorism. since i've raised that criticism, nato has since announced a new initiative focused on|just that.|america must unite the whole civilized world in the fight against islamic terrorism, just like we did against communism in the cold war.|we've tried it president obama's way. he gave the world his apology tour, we got isis, and many other problems, in return.|i'd like to conclude my remarks today by again expressing our solidarity with the people of orlando who have come under attack.|when i am president, i pledge to protect and defend all americans who live inside of our borders. wherever they come from, wherever they were born, all|americans living here and following our laws will be protected.|america will be a tolerant and open society.|america will also be a safe society.|we will protect our borders at home.|we will defeat isis overseas.|we will ensure every parent can raise their children in peace and safety.|we will make america rich again.|we will make america safe again.|we will make american great again.|thank you.|were doing really well. iowas been amazing. its been amazing. were doing so well and i love this place and im back here all|the time and im going to be here a lot in january.|youre going to be so sick of me. youll probably say, "we cant give the caucus, just forget it. we cant stand the guy any|more."|no, youre going to like me and were going to be back and were going to do a great job for you. most importantly, were going to get|to that office and were going to do the right thing. were going to do the right thing.|so, a few things. a lot so much has happened.|you know, when we first came out, we were all talking together. and we were talking border security, which were just doing so great with the border|security.|were going to build a wall. mexicos going to pay for the wall. we all know that. but were going to have security. and the drugs are going|to stop and the people that are going to come into the country but theyre going to come into the country theyre going to be legal, theyre|coming in legally, and thats the way. thats the way.|and it affects iowa so much.|so we were talking about. so we were talking about that. we were talking about repealing obamacare. boom. its going to be repealed. its going|to be replaced.|i dont know if youve been seeing whats happening but obamacare is a total disaster. its dying of its own weight.|and by 17, meaning hell be playing golf and ill be working very hard. but 17 instead youre not getting the people signed up.|theres been a lot of talk about it and a lot of stories about it.|obamacares dead but well terminate it quicker than that.|and we will come up with something that will be so good, so much better.|premiums are going through the roof. deductibles are so high that unless youre close to death, youll never going to get to use. and even then|i dont think youre going to get to use it really.|so, were going to take care of that.|and by the way, we have a lot of good people. we have ethanol. nobody is really we have the ethanol where are the ethanol people? right?|i was here a month ago and i met with them all and they do a fantastic job. i toured the plants and they do a fantastic job but its so important.|and its another form of lets stay away from opec and lets stay away from that middle east stuff. its so important |actually what i dont understand because the one guy thats doing pretty good with me in iowa is ted cruz and hes a nice guy. i mean,|everything i say he agrees with me. no matter what i say.|i was going to do one really wild but he agrees.|but with the ethanol, really, hes got to come a long way because hes right now for the oil.|but i understand it. oil pays him a lot of money. hes got to be for oil, right? the oil companies give him a lot of money.|but im with you. im with everybody. look, im self funding. i have no oil company. i have no special interest. i have no lobbyist that|want me and you know, theyre representing countries that are ripping off the country, theyre representing companies that are ripping off our|country.|all i do is im going to be working for you folks. were going to do this thing together. were going to make america so great again and|maybe better than ever before. so important.|so when we first started, i talked about china how theyre ripping us and japan and mexico.|mexico both at the border and in trade. theyre taking so many of our companies. nabiscos moving there with their big plant. ford is moving|there with a big plant. they took a big plant away from tennessee a great state they took it away at the last moment.|im not going to let that stuff. were going to do what we have to do, okay?|but i talked about that and i talk about it a lot. the fact is that about 2.5 weeks ago with paris, im speaking a little bit differently now.|believe me, i can take care of china in my back pocket. thats easy for me. thats what i do.|and we have all the cards. a lot of people dont know. you know, these politicians they dont understand we have the cards.|you know, with china, our people pay tax. they pay no tax. its not supposed to be that way. they call it a tariff because it sounds better. but|well take care of that. well take care of all of that.|what happened is with paris, theres a different mindset.|and when the polls came out last week, my numbers went way up because people felt more secure with me.|now, maybe it had to do who knows why? who knows?|but my poll numbers went up. and do you ever notice whenever theres something that i do thats proper but controversial, theyd say "oh,|now hes gone. thats it. thats the end."|i wont go over all of the different things because maybe youll change your minds.|but theyd say, "thats it. its over."|and then theyd come in, "sir, your poll number went up 9 points this week." i said, "they did?" because i have to do whats right. i have to do|whats right.|and you know what? if i dont make it, i dont make it.|i have a good life. we all hopefully have a good life. i have a great family, nice people, wonderful people. they love me. i think. i hope. i think. but|i have a great family and i built a great business.|theres such spirit theres such spirit no matter where i go. you know, i go to dallas. we have 20,000. 35,000 people in mobile, alabama.|20,000 people in oklahoma. wherever we go in iowa, we have these crowds. you know this is supposed to be for like a record.|it is big and yet it feels intimate. it feels good|so i changed a couple of weeks ago. when i saw paris i changed. and a big, big part of what im doing now is safety and security and smartness|and smartness.|sort of interesting. you know, the slogan is "make america great again" and im adding "make america great again and safe again" because we|dont feel safe anymore.|and the problem we have now that weve never had to this extent is the power of weaponry. its the power. its the tremendous power.|you know, 100 years ago, i would have said "lets not go." i said "dont go there" anyway. and i said it strongly "dont go. youre|going to destabilize the middle east."|but the fact is right now, were going to have to do things because we have some really, really sick degenerates.|and the press look at all those cameras going all live, all you know, nobody else has cameras like this. they can make a speech 100 times|they make a speech, nobody cares. look at this.|and dont worry, they never pan the crowd. you know, they never; they have me. thats why im walking around. i figured ill walk around|maybe theyll get the crowd. they never pan the crowd. i tell them "pan the crowd", they never do.|i had a crowd 7,000 people last week. more. 7,000 people and in a confined space. they had 3,000 people outside that couldnt get in. my wife|says, "darling, the speech was excellent. did you have many people there?" i said "what?" she said, "well, they never leave your face." they keep it|purposely. but ill tell you the cameras may be a little screwed up where you cant move them, right?|but every time theres a protester "well, im protesting" and it can be in the back lefthand corner of the room, the cameras swoop over there.|its true. its true. its true.|no, i used to think they couldnt move. you know, maybe theres something with the crazy computers.|you know, in the old days everything was better right? the car seats. youd sit in your car and you want to move forward and back, you press a|button. bing, bing. now, you have to open up things, press a computer, takes you 15 minutes.|well, the same thing i figured with cameras. i didnt think they moved. i figured they were fixed for certain reasons. and then i saw a protester|and those cameras were bent in positions like you wouldnt believe possible.|so, theyre very dishonest people. what can i say? not all of them but most of them.|ill tell you, you have one of the most dishonest right here in your backyard. the des moines register is the worst. they are the worst. the worst.|no, theyre very dishonest.|you have some reporter named jacobs. she is the worst. she will write so its such misrepresentation. and so i dont care. i mean,|who cares? so im saying it right in their backyard. theyre failing anyway. they probably wont be in business in two years. i think|theyre losing a fortune. i think.|you know, its funny. every time the des moines register does a poll, i always do badly.|im only doing this so they dont sue me but i dont mind if they do. i hope they sue me because they dont have enough money to sue|me. thats the good thing.|but i believe and i may be wrong in fact, ill say im sure im wrong but its my opinion that they dont do it properly|because you know they poll like 300 or 400 people. ill explain it you know, if they lose 20 people in the pocket. "oh, trump? oh, forget that|one. forget that one."|now, i dont know that they do that. do you do that, des moines register?|but every time i have a des moines register poll, i do poorly. i also do poorly with the bloomberg polls. i dont know why.|but we had a great poll come in cnn last couple of days where were leading i think by 13 points in iowa. in iowa.|and then we have another coming where were doing well.|but i think des moines register has somebody says its coming out sometime. ill just tell you, watch "trump disappears!"|i think were going to do so well. i think were actually going to even do better. you know, were leading in most of the poll. were|leading in every poll.|except iowa there was one poll there was one poll, monmouth id never even heard monmouth. what the hell is monmouth? what is monmouth?|explain it. i dont like monmouth. you know why i dont like it? because they always treat me badly also.|but i only like polls that treat me well.|but were doing so well. nationwide, were leading every poll by tremendous. we just had one in georgia 44%. 44%. think of that.|thats 44% with 15 people. id take 44% if we had three people. i dont think id take it if we had two people but i think id take|if we had three. but 44%.|cbs came out as you know, you probably saw that, new york times two days ago and were at 35% to a small number. were killing everybody in|every poll. just one little outlier here.|again, im sure when des moines comes out itll be a negative because i dont believe that poll.|but we are going to win. and ill tell you what. honestly, iowa is so important to me. i could say, "oh, lets not do" i am an|evangelical. i am a christian. im a presbyterian. im a presbyterian. i love billy graham.|franklin graham came out with the most beautiful statements. franklin graham. he was so incredible. he came out i dont know if you all saw|the statements he came out with about trump he was so incredible. franklin graham was amazing, the son of billy graham, who was, you know, theres|nobody, nobody that ive ever seen billy graham was unbelievable. if anybodys gone to his crusades, they were incredible.|but so i think were going to do were doing really well with the evangelicals |and by the way and again, i do like ted cruz but not a lot of evangelicals come out of cuba in all fairness. its true. not a lot come out. but i|like him nevertheless.|i think were going to do great and we are doing great with evangelicals. were doing great with the tea party, leading with the tea party.|and were doing fantastic with all the young and middle. were doing great with everybody.|and so its very important for me to win iowa.|now, i could put less pressure on myself and i could say, "oh, i dont care about iowa. i dont care." but i do care. i do care so much about|it. thats why were here all the time.|and then the lies happened. you know, when i was using iowa, they lied so much. i said, "the people of iowa cant be that stupid or the people of|the country cant ". im trying to make a point, right? so i said, "the people of the country cant be that stupid." well, they cut|the "country" out so its referring to iowa.|i love you people. remember that. remember that.|i was talking about something, and i wont even mention what im talking about because the guy im talking about and was actually a very|good guy.|but i will say this. we want to win iowa so bad. because if i win iowa, i think wed run the table. i really do. i think wed run the table.|wed go right through.|because were leading big in new hampshire every poll. big. big in new hampshire. christie got an endorsement from this crazy newspaper up|there. its the weirdest deal ive ever seen.|and you know the paper that was in his state called up and said, "are you sure about that? nobody ever called us." they cant believe it. and we can|get into that but its irrelevant.|but were leading new hampshire big. were leading in south carolina like monstrous numbers. were leading nevada. were leading in|texas. were leading everywhere. were leading big in florida.|now, you have rubio nice guy, by the way. you have rubio and he is a nice guy but youve got to vote. when people put you in a position to be|a senator, youve got to go and vote. you cant be the number one person that doesnt vote in the senate. youve got to say, "hey,|im a young guy. i want to go and vote." you should stay there a little longer. hes a good guy. stay there, go in, vote, create a nice record.|but i dont know. hows he doing in iowa? not too good. right? hes not doing well. hows rubio doing? not good.|i mean, it seems like a two-person race right now and its an important race to me. so i just want to let you know its very important.|so with all of that, if we win iowa, a lot of people say wed just go through. i think well win virtually every state in the union and its|over quickly. over quickly.|what about the republican establishment? the establishments got a problem, you know. its sort of like the fighters. you know, the great|champions. sometimes theyll go into the hometown of a guy theyre fighting and theyll say, "you know, wed never want to get a|decision. we go for the knock-out. the knock-out is the knock-out." because you get a lot of bad decisions. i know a lot about the world of sports,|believe me, and they go into a hometown to fight and its a decision and they say, "uh, were in a problem" and theyd lose the fight that|they won. the only way they win the fight definitely knock out.|so, if we win iowa, i think were going to win everything after that. so i think its going to show how important iowa is.|ill pledge this to iowa. even if i lose, ill pledge it, okay? i dont think ive ever said that in my life. if we go and win,|iowas staying right where it is in the chain. its not moving. you know, theres a big move to move iowa into a much further back position|by the establishment. folks, i win its not happening, okay? youre staying right here because its great. its great.|youve been paying into social security and medicare, by the way. lets put them in. because medicare does work. with both, you have|tremendous waste, fraud, and abuse. were going to take care of that. okay?|but were not going to cut your social security and were not cutting your medicare. were going to take jobs back from all these countries|that are ripping us off. were going to become a wealthy country again. and were going to be able to save your social security.|i cant believe this number but i read it over who is the man that told me the number over 6 million people i cant believe|it are aged 112 and over are getting social security but i heard it. i read it. a tremendous like 6 million people are getting social|security. theyre dead. meaning somebody else is picking up|the press is going to have to check it because what do i know? but can you imagine, we have 6 million now, we know theres not 6 million,|there may be one. but theres not 6 million.|anybody in this room 112 or over? because if they are, i want to shake your hand.|but so 6 million over 112 years old picking up social security and thats the beginning. so theres tremendous waste, fraud, and abuse.|what were going to do is were going to save medicare. were going to save social security. were not going to raise the age or|were not going to do all the things that everyone else is talking about doing. theyre all talking about doing it, and you dont have to.|were going to bring our jobs back. were going to make our economy incredible again.|my tax proposal, which is in, and a great detail in terms of policy and its gotten tremendous reviews from a lot of people, a lot of great groups.|but we are going to cut taxes tremendously for the middle class and for businesses because our middle class is being decimated.|and when that happens, youre going to see an economy that takes off. were going to get rid of a lot of that debt, if not all of it. but|were going to get rid of it you know, were at $19 trillion going t $21 trillion right.|you know, if you go back eight or nine years, trillion wasnt even a word anybody knew and now its like routine.|so we are going to save your social security without cuts. were going to bring the economy back. were going to make ourselves rich again.|a woman said to me in new hampshire recently, she said, "mr. trump, im voting for you. i love you. but its very crude when you say youre|going to make our country rich again." i said, "i know its crude. it sounds bad. but many things i say are crude. it sounds bad. but we cant|make our country great again unless we make our country rich again. we cant let everybody in the world rip us off.|we just did a big interview with cnn just before this. and you know, hillary was hillary missing today? what happened? she was two hours late.|no, did you hear?|now, i may be wrong. if im one minute off, theyll call me because they love hillary. they love her. you know why. i dont know why. why?|im trying to figure it. no, i heard she was a couple of hours late. everybody left. you know what happened? she was sleeping. im telling you.|she couldnt get out of bed. she was sleeping. she was sleeping. was right.|remember, we built china. the money they took out of country, we rebuilt china. you go there, they have bridges all over the they have bridges|like the george washington bridge. maybe i shouldnt mention that particular bridge. but like bigger like the george washington bridge. only a few|people got that one; thats okay.|but they have bridges going up. we have rebuilt china. theyve taken our jobs. theyve taken our base. theyve taken our manufacturing all|over the place. theyve taken our money. theyve taken our money. not going to happen anymore folks. not going to happen anymore. not going to|happen.|i know the great business people. we have the greatest business people in the world. guys like carl icahn. he calls me, "donald, i want to help. i want|to help." the smartest people call. were not going to use the special interest guy a donor.|we use donors to negotiate with china because he gave some guy like, you know, whoever it might be. because again, im the only one thats|self-funding my campaign. everybody else isnt.|these guys when these guys give money to politicians to a large extent they own those politicians. they will do whatever the hell the special|interests and the donors want.|thats not going to happen with me.|so, social security were saving it. medicare were saving it. were going to make our country rich. okay? thank you,|sweetheart.|yeah, its called the statute of limitations, right? and you know its a six-year year statute. maybe five but its probably six. but|its a six-year statute. yeah, you have to look at it.|look, hillary clinton you know this story. its a crime. she committed a crime.|now, perhaps perhaps somebody, you know, we have to have a fair justice department and perhaps well have some really good attorney|general thats going to say "well, you know".|look, we want to be fair to everybody. okay? including hillary clinton. but she committed a crime in my opinion.|now, she shouldnt be allowed to run. shes being protected absolutely. i have little doubt that theyre going to find anything. but|theyve already found it.|i mean, you watch television. you have all these big scholars, these lawyers, "yes, she violated section so and so". just one after another. i mean,|actually violated many, many laws, not just like a little one here. many laws.|you mentioned general petraeus. his life was destroyed over 5% of what hillary clinton did. over nothing.|so i think shes going to be their nominee definitely. the only question is whether or not shell be allowed to run. shes being protected|by the democrats. shes being protected by the president. and thats why why do you think shes going along with these insane policies|of his? okay? i mean, she goes along with everything.|i dont even honestly in all fairness to her, i dont think she believes it. but i think shes afraid hes going to say, "listen,|i dont like her anymore. go take care of her. im going to get somebody else." im telling you.|so, the question is statute of limitations. its a five year statute of limitations. shes got a problem. shes got a problem. in one way,|shes running for her life because i know one thing, if she wins thats the end of that. right? but if she loses she could have a very serious|problem.|well, i said right at the beginning. were going to build a wall thats going to be a real wall. thats going to be a real wall.|its not going to be you see that ceiling? that ceiling is nothing compared to the wall. and we can build it and we can build it right. and it|will be strong and powerful and as beautiful as a wall is going to look. its got to be beautiful because someday theyre going to name it the|trump wall. i know that. its going to happen. going to happen.|and its going to work. and walls do work.|you know, they wanted to build a wall here 20 years ago. you know they couldnt get environmental impact statements. thats just shows you.|china is building in the south china sea massive military bases. right? why? theyre not supposed to. they have no respect for obama or our country.|theyre not supposed to be doing that. and you could get them to stop just by saying "were not doing business with you anymore." their whole|economy would you dont have to go to war. its economics. the whole country would collapse in two seconds. believe me. we have such power|and we dont know it.|but theyre building massive now, they had little islands. they put the biggest escavators, not caterpillars. i think theyre using|komatsu from japan they have these massive escavators, and i said to a friend of mine whos chinese from china very rich guy, very|successful guy, paid me a fortune for an apartment so i happen to like him, okay? i said jokingly "how long did it take them to do these massive|islands theyre building right out of the sea? boom, those shovels go in, take out everything. how long did it take you to get the environmental|impact statements?" he laughed. he said, "what are you kidding me? nothing." they say "we will build there." about two seconds later, you have|escavators digging.|so we had a problem with environmental look, ive won many environmental awards. im a big believer especially in clean air and clean|water. im a big believer. just so you know. big. and ive gotten so many awards for the environment. so i understand the environment; ive|won many, many awards.|but when you look at how were impinged and hurt. but the wall was stopped because they couldnt get an environmental impact statement among|other things. they couldnt get an environmental impact statement.|now, there was probably a snail or a turtle or a snake or something. you were ruining the habitat of a rattlesnake. i dont know. but they actually|had people a lot of people people that now would be against it but they wanted to build a wall and years ago they couldnt get it done.|you know, i said bomb the oil, right? ive been saying that for three years. now finally they started after paris they started bombing the|oil. ive been saying it for years.|you know one of the reasons we didnt bomb the oil? obama didnt want to hurt the environment. now, i heard that and i thought somebody was|kidding. i thought a comedian was saying it. it turned out to be true. he didnt want the flames and everything going into the atmosphere. this is|the way we fight today.|im telling you, folks, were being led by stupid people. were being led by stupid people.|ive been saying not really bomb ive been saying take the oil. i didnt want to go into iraq. but once we were there, i said "look,|we shouldnt have been there. but then when we left, we left the wrong way."|first of all, we have a president who told them a date. "were going to leave on such and such a date." what was it like 18 months later? so the|enemy all of sudden said, "wow", cause dont believe it. they dont want to be killed. okay? they dont want to be killed. so the enemy|said "theyre going to leave on a certain date?" so they pulled back, the date comes, and now you see what happened. its a disaster and iran is|taking over iraq.|so anyway, i couldnt believe it when they said that. when we said to our 50 soldiers two weeks ago and our president gets up and announces "we are|sending 50 soldiers."|okay, first of all, he thinks its a good press announcement. its not. 50 soldiers thats not a lot even though theyre the|elite. but those 50 soldiers because of that announcement have a target on their heart. they have a target on their heart.|why does he have to say that for? why cant he let 50 soldiers go there quietly, stealth, stealth? why cant he just do that? why cant he|do that?|those 50 soldiers are in grave danger today because of that, and they probably dont even know that but everybody is looking for them and thats|the way it is.|we have people that dont know what theyre doing.|we used to have general macarthur douglas macarthur general george patton. i mean, these were real people. these were real people.|today, we have generals that go on talk shows i saw a general the other day on a talk show. he said and this was serious and hes a good|man. theyre good men. but youve got to lead these men. even the generals have to have some power over them. he said, "we are in the worst|shape in terms of preparedness that weve been in in decades." and this is the time when we have to be in the best shape because the world wants to|kill us.|and he said we are in the worst shape weve been in many, many decades.|now, number one, he shouldnt be saying that because youre telling the enemy that and the enemy feels embolden when they hear that. right? we|shouldnt be saying it. we shouldnt be saying it.|i mean, even if its true, you dont say it. you get it fixed and you do the opposite.|one thing im going to do ill tell you, im going to build our military so big and so strong and so powerful so powerful that nobody|is going to mess with us. nobody is going to mess with us.|you know in many ways, its the cheapest thing you can do. everyone is toying with us right now. its the cheapest thing you can do. the|absolute cheapest thing you can do.|im a big second amendment person by the way.|my sons are really great marksmen. theyre big believers. and im a member of the nra but im not such a good shot. but theyre great|shots so its one of those things.|but if you think about that question. so you know theres tremendous pressure to get rid of the guns, get rid of the magazines, no bullets. how|about the one where they have three bullets in every magazine? so the people will put three bullets in. i dont think the bad guys are going to|say, "well, i dont want to break the law. im going to go kill people today but im going to put three bullets in." right?|these people and you know i have arguments with them all the time and im a practical guy. honestly, if i didnt believe this, i|couldnt say it.|so in france or in california, i have a permission to carry, which is a big thing in new york. its very hard to get. i have a license to carry.|but in france or in california or in all these places where we see the shooters, right, if instead of having like in france hundreds of people in that|room paris has the toughest gun laws in the world. france has the toughest gun laws in the world. nobody has guns. except the bad guys.|so they walk in with the worst, the toughest, the best weaponry you could have and they said, "over here boom. over here boom." so they|killed 128 but many more are dying right now. theyre in terrible shape in the hospitals. they just wipe the place out and they couldve stayed|there for longer. they wiped it out.|then you had those two sleaze bags from california. the married couple. i saw the press "the young married couple that did the shooting".|theyre not a young married couple. theyre the worst. theyre sleaze.|they say "the young married couple". thats no young married couple.|so they walk into a place and they killed 14 people and others are going to be dying probably because of a lot of other wounded people.|but if somebody had guns in there nobody had a gun how would you have done if you had a gun? would you have been firing back a little bit?|theyd been in trouble. right? they would have been in trouble. believe me. that guy.|so, you know, i went to like an ivy league college and i have a lot of friends that are against guns and i argue with them. i talk to them. i said,|"okay, were in paris. you have all these places and theres hundreds of people. guys walk in with guns and you have no gun. dont you think|they wouldve been better if they had?" they cant they lose the argument but they never change their mind.|so we have to fight for the second amendment. its so simple. its so simple.|and believe me, believe me, they want to take those guns away and you always know that the bad ones are going to have the guns and theyre going to|have them more so than ever before. so were going to protect the second amendment if im president. that i can tell you.|and by the way, were going to be saying merry christmas again. do you ever notice?|and by the way, merry christmas everybody. merry christmas. and happy holiday.|frankly, i have a lot of friends that arent christian. they like christmas. everybody likes christmas. its politically incorrect to say merry|christmas. but when im president, merry christmas, happy holidays, enjoy yourselves, dont eat too much turkey. right?|okay, so were going to say merry christmas again folks. were going to bring that spirit back.|i really do. i like ted cruz a lot. and hes doing well. im doing well. i mean, its not a contest between the two of us, just so we|understand. we have to make that but i do like him.|and i would say that we would certainly have things in mind for ted, to be honest with you.|i mean, hes somebody that i can certainly see that because i like him, he likes me. he actually put out a tweet tonight. he said "donald trump is"|i think he used the word "terrific". thats a nice word. i mean, whoever hears that?|i can tell you other candidates are not exactly saying that about me. right?|so the super pacs are horrible and i had many set up for me by people i didnt know. i mean, id see them on television talking about |somebody named one "the art of the deal pac". two young guys. they look good. i mean, i dont know.|but then i got to be, you know, started going around and i see the corruption with these super pacs, with the stuff towards money. people that put the|money in are dealing with the candidates. the whole thing is wrong.|and i see it. i mean, bush has $125 million. think of it. $125 million. by the way, if he had $2 billion it wouldnt make any difference. okay?|but bush has $125 million. and honestly, hes a nice person. he is. i dont want to do that but hes a very nice person. but its $125|million. and youd say to yourself, "people give $2 million, $5 million, $7 million. you know whats happening."|but some of the super pacs are running campaigns. theyre actually running the campaign.|another thing and its sort of interesting, one of the super pacs i believe has $6 million. of the $6 million this was reported on the front|page of the los angeles times one of the candidates whos a nice person so im not going to mention the name. you know, when i like people|i like them. im a very loyal person.|of the $6 million after all of the bloodsuckers took their cuts, the fundraisers can you believe this? they had $140,000 left for the|campaign. thats better than being a real estate broker. id rather do that than sell houses. $140,000 left. that was in the newspaper. i|dont know. i think i believe it.|but ive seen it. i saw it with the romney campaign. guys made tens of millions of dollars raising money for romney. i said what the hell is this? i|mean, you give money and they get a cut.|look, our laws are so corrupt. our campaign finance laws are so totally corrupt. its so horrible. so horrible.|and i dont necessarily want to stop people from giving because i think thats a good thing but you have to get away from these pacs.|what you have to have is people have to know who it is. so you have to open up the process. let people know. if somebody wants to give $1 million, you|give $1 million but everybody has to know that so and so gave $1 million because that puts a little pressure on guys like brad who raises hundreds of|millions. puts a little pressure.|but the concept of the pac is no good. its no good. its a very dangerous, terrible thing. so we will change our laws because you really have|no choice. its so out of control. its so terrible.|but the papers that are in this room tonight, they should look at this. theres so little money left over for the candidates, its one of the|reasons why im so happy im doing my own.|we actually sent legal letters to either nine or 11 pacs. the trump pac, the trump pac, the this pac. first of all, im sure that out of some of|them they stole the money. some guy has no money. he sets up a trump something pac. nothing to do with me. sets it up. all of a sudden hes got $2|million sitting there. right? people send in money. and that guy has no money. how much of that money do you think hes going to use to do what|hes supposed to be doing? thats common sense. so maybe all of it but i doubt it.|so we sent legal notices to every one that we could find. we dont want their money. we said "dont do it. we dont want it. and we want|ideally to give the money back to the people that gave it to you."|but the super pac concept is corrupt. its terrible and it should be ended. and were going to go to new campaign finance laws that are going to|be terrific. okay? thank you.|well, look hes from texas. to the best of my knowledge, theres a lot of oil in texas. right? so you know, he gets a lot|of money from the oil companies and hes totally against ethanol and everything else youre talking about.|and im not. im totally in favor.|and you know, its a big industry here. its a big industry.|you know, if that industry is upset, iowas got problems.|i was amazed. i was here three weeks ago with the group they were such amazing people and i learned so much about it. i was in favor of it even|before|beyond even the fuel capacities, which we want to create as much as we can, tremendous numbers of jobs in iowa. and i said to myself, if ted cruz is|against ethanol, how does he win in iowa? because thats very anti-iowa. i dont know how he wins in iowa. i dont know.|no, but im totally for it. okay? thank you.|i was a member of the establishment six months ago. i gave $350,000 to the rga. thats the republican governors association. i gave tremendous|amounts of money away. i was like the fair haired boy.|once i said im running, they said "what? youre not supposed to run."|and then what happened i ran against all these senators and governors. and everyone said "well, i dont know." my wife said "if you run,|youre going to win" because she understands that i like people i love people and people love me. and she said "you will run but you actually|have to go and run. you have to announce youre running because nobodys going to believe youre running."|and so i didnt want to announce because i didnt want to like announce and things didnt work out and im like some of these guys where|theyre zero. many of them zero.|and so finally i said, "look, lets were going to do it. we have to do it."|just too many things that i watch on television with our president and the decisions that are made bergdahl where we get bergdahl and they|get five killers. we get this horrible, dirty rotten spy horrible traitor. we get this horrible, terrible traitor and they get five killers that|theyve wanted for nine years the worst killers and theyre all back on the battlefield.|you know, so many decisions. the iran deal. the iran deal. how bad is that? they self-inspect. "okay, good. were not building. we promise were|not building nuclear weapons." "oh, okay. thats okay."|and we give them $150 billion and we dont even get our prisoners back. the whole thing is crazy. so i saw this. and i said to my wife, "hey, i|dont know if ill do well or not. who the hell knows?"|and its a risky thing. and ive always heard if youre a very successful person you cant run for office, especially for president, and|i see it all the time. and the people go after me. i dont even care at this point. i said, "i have to do it. now, were going to have to do|and i look at it last time with romney and i didnt do it and i probably should have because he let us down. i mean, look, he let us down.|that was an election we had a failed president. four years ago he was a failed president, just as bad as he is now. its true. and romney let|us down. that last month it was like he wasnt even campaigning.|i said, "why arent you on jay leno? why arent you on david letterman? why arent you doing it?" and he just didnt do it. so he lost|the election.|so i backed mccain, he lost. i backed romney, he lost. this time i said im doing it myself, okay? were going to win. were going to win.|but there is an establishment out there. its a real establishment. real people. and theyre people that are used to having their little puppets|all over the place. and theyre people that are used to giving donations and having control.|and theyre people that, you know, look when they call me ill treat them with respect but im not going to be doing bad things if its|bad for the country. im not going to let ford build a plant in mexico if i can keep it in michigan.|and im not going to let the car companies and nabisco and all these people and all these companies im all for free trade. i think|its great. im for it. but its got to be smart trade. im not going to let them move to mexico and then sell stuff over the border|with no tax, no nothing so we lose our jobs, we lose our factories, they go over here, they make it, we let them come through. how does that help us,|folks? i went to the best business school in the world. believe me, it doesnt help us. okay? trust me.|and were not going to make deals like that anymore. we cant. we owe $19 trillion. we cant.|so the establishment is not ever probably look, you know what? in the end, if this country starts humming even the establishment theyll be|saying "okay, its a good thing" because theyll be beneficiaries also.|but we do have a real establishment and theyve never seen this happen before.|a writer called up and he said recently i told this story. i mean, one of the top journalists to my way of thinking certainly in the country and|beyond. and he said, "mr. trump, how does it feel?" i said, "how does what feel?" "how does it feel? what youve done has never, ever been done|before?" i said, "what have i done?" "youve dominated the summer of trump." now they call it the autumn of trump.|hopefully, theyre going to call it the spring of trump and i want the next autumn of trump.|but i said to the writer, "i dont know what youre talking about. i havent done anything cause frankly if i dont win i consider|this to be a total waste of time." ill be honest with you. as much as i like being with you tonight. because we wont be able to do anything.|he said, "no, no. youve won even if you dont win. youve won already." i said, "no, youre wrong. if i dont win, i have wasted my|time."|so you know, the point is that the establishment cant believe it because theyve never seen it happen before.|i was on the cover of time magazine four or five weeks ago and time magazine was going to pick the person of the year. everybody even my|enemies said "trump is going to win." i said, "i wont win." they said, "why?" "i wont win. just like i should have gotten the emmy for|the apprentice for the first three years. i was nominated. i should have." and i said, "ill never win." i told everybody ill never win because|im not hollywood establishment.|and with time magazine, i said bill oreilly, whos a great guy, did an editorial at the end of his show two days ago saying nobody has|done more than trump, he should have won.|now, im not saying i should have yeah, i probably should have in all fairness but he said "nobodys done more" you know,|taking over what weve done has been amazing all of us together not just me. its all of us. its all of us. from dallas and|mobile and oklahoma. all of us. because the spirit.|well, merkel got it. now, merkel, what did she do? shes destroyed i mean, shes in the process of destroying germany with the|migration.|we have to help the people with the migration. we have to create a safe zone some place in syria. but i dont want them coming into this country. i|dont want them because we dont know who they are. we dont know who they are. them with their printing press that now do the forged|passports. okay? you heard about that. so we dont know.|the bottom line on that its such an interesting question. youll know in about a month or two whether or not the establishment has|treated me fairly.|but the only thing i can say is this: if i win iowa, i think its over. i said before. because i think if i win iowa, new hampshire is amazing.|people are amazing. you would love the people. they would love you. youd love everybody. the whole country is in love i call it the noisy|majority. its no longer a silent majority. its the noisy majority.|but if we win like i think were going to win because we have such a big league, honestly, its not going to matter. they cant do anything.|i dont care about the establishment. they cant do anything.|you know, the only way they can do is if im a little bit short, if im two votes short i have a problem because ill have to go into that|convention, im dealing with all these blood sucker politicians and theyll make their deals and theyll have all their money guys around|and theyll be in the backroom making deals.|but if i get the number of delegates, theres not a thing they can do. and ill end up doing fine with the establishment|im such a believer in education.|you know, i had an uncle who was a professor at mit who was a brilliant guy in fact, i just retweeted an article about him today. youve got to|read it. okay? realdonaldtrump. you have to read it.|when i see somebody like jeb no ill tell you one thing i respect. he didnt change his views. he knew he was getting killed on this issue|and he didnt change. and i respect that to a certain extent. but its so wrong.|common core is a total disaster. we have people bureaucrats in washington telling you how your child should be educated in iowa and new|hampshire and all of the different places that we go to. its ridiculous.|and i go around and ive seen the principals. ive seen so many students and teachers and professors and principals, and ive seen some of|the people and the love even in iowa at a school ive seen some of the love these parents give to those schools. this is real love.|these are smart people. and these are people that arent working for a paycheck. these are incredible people |remember this: our educational system is a mess. we spend more money per pupil as a government than any other country in the world and were in 28th|place. and i mean like double what anybody else pays.|so i want to bring education back to the local areas. youre going to have parents and youre going to have unbelievably talented people and|they love their kids and they want their kids to be well-educated because its so important. and youre going to be very happy with it. okay?|thank you. thank you.|you people do it. were backing you 100% we are backing you 100%. youre doing a phenomenal job. there should be more people like you in|this country.|you know, the whole grid is a disaster. right? the whole country. the infrastructure of our country is falling apart.|and nobody can build like me. its what i do. i build. i build.|im building on as you know pennsylvania avenue a big tremendous hotel that i got from the government of the united states. can you|believe it? during the obama administration a couple of years ago.|but we had the best plan. the gsa is terrific. theyre very good. actually, theyre very talented people.|were under-budget and ahead of schedule. thats what we do.|when you see these things where theyre building a bridge and its going to cost, you know, $1 billion and it costs $12 billion. how about when|they build a hospital and it costs $3 billion?|and i look at it im very good i can look at a building and tell you how much its going to cost.|i say "$250 million." "no, sir, $3 billion." $3 billion? think somebody got rich on that one?|so were going to stop all this stuff. were going to make our country so strong and so wonderful. and we all love it anyways. we love it.|but its so sad to see whats happening. its so sad. and were going to change it around.|we have such a problem. and the biggest problem i have, you know, it relates to education and the hardest thing you get is when you go around and|youd see students and so many students come out to hear us and they always want to talk about the loans they have student loans and|theyre going through nice colleges, theyre good students, they work hard, they could be really top in their class and they get out and they|say, "mr. trump, we have no jobs. we cant get jobs."|so theyre borrowed up to the hilt and they cant get jobs.|were going to bring our jobs back from china. were going to bring our jobs back from all these places overseas that have stolen our jobs.|were going to bring our jobs back from south america. were bringing them back from mexico. were going to have jobs again. believe me.|were going to be manufacturers again.|were going to start making apple computers in this country. what the hell good does it do to make them in china? i want to make them in this|country and we have the ability to do it.|so, were going to bring our jobs back. okay?|wow! thank you very much.|hello.|id like to begin by thanking the people of montana, south dakota, new mexico, new jersey, and california. we had some big, big days and we have|some big numbers coming in. very big numbers.|im truly honored by your support.|together, we accomplished what nobody thought was absolutely possible and you know what that is. were only getting started and its going to be|beautiful. remember that.|tonight, we close one chapter in history and we begin another. our campaign received more primary votes than any gop campaign in history. no matter who|it is, no matter who they are, we received more votes.|this is a great feeling. thats a great feeling.|this is not a testament to me but a testament to all of the people who believed real change, not obama change, but real change is possible.|youve given me the honor to lead the republican party to victory this fall.|were going to do it. were going to do it, folks. were going to do it.|i understand the responsibility of carrying the mantle and i will never, ever let you down. too much work, too many people, blood, sweat, and tears.|im never going to let you down.|i will make you proud of your party and our movement, and thats what it is its a movement.|now, recent polls have shown that im beating hillary clinton and with all of her many problems and the tremendous mistakes that shes made and|she has made tremendous mistakes, we expect our lead to continue to grow and grow substantially.|to everyone who voted for me throughout this campaign, i want to thank you. i want to thank you very, very much.|to those who voted for someone else in either party, i will work hard to earn your support and i will work very hard to earn that support.|to all of those bernie sanders voters who have been left out in the cold by a rigged system of super delegates, we welcome you with open arms.|and by the way, the terrible trade deals that bernie was so vehemently against and hes right on that will be taken care of far better|than anyone ever thought possible. and thats what i do.|we are going to have fantastic trade deals. were going to start making money and bringing in jobs.|now, i know some people say im too much of a fighter. my preference is always peace, however. and ive shown that. ive shown that for a|long time.|ive built an extraordinary business on relationships and deals that benefit all parties involved always.|my goal is always again to bring people together. but im forced to fight for something i really care about, i will never, ever back down and our|country will never, ever back down.|ive fought for my family. ive fought for my business. ive fought for my employees. and now im going to fight for you the|american people like nobody has ever fought before.|and im not a politician fighting. im me. youre going to see some real good things happen.|just remember this: im going to be your champion. im going to be americas champion.|because, you see, this election isnt about republican or democrat. its about who runs this country the special interests or the people|and i mean the american people.|every election year politicians promised change. obama promised change and it didnt work out too well. and every year, they failed to deliver.|why would politicians want to change a system thats totally rigged in order to keep them in power? thats what theyre doing, folks.|why would politicians want to change a system thats made them and their friends very, very wealthy?|i beat a rigged system by winning with overwhelming support the only way you could have done it landslides all over the country with every|demographic, on track to win 37 primary/caucus victories in a field that began with 17 very talented people.|after years of disappointment, theres one thing we all have learned we cant fix the rigged system by relying on very and i mean|this so, so strongly on the very people who rigged it. and they rigged it and do not ever think anything differently.|we cant solve our problems by counting on the politicians who created our problems.|the clintons have turned the politics of personal enrichment into an art form for themselves.|theyve made hundreds of millions of dollars selling access, selling favors, selling government contracts, and i mean hundreds of millions of|dollars.|secretary clinton even did all of the work on a totally illegal private server. something that how shes getting away with this folks nobody|understands. designed to keep her corrupt dealings out of the public record, putting the security of the entire country at risk, and a president in a|corrupt system is totally protecting her. not right.|i am going to give a major speech on probably monday of next week, and were going to be discussing all of the things that have taken place with the|clintons. i think youre going to find it very informative and very, very interesting.|i wonder if the press would want to attend. who knows?|hillary clinton turned the state department into a private hedge fund. the russians, the saudis, the chinese all gave money to bill and hillary and got|favorable treatment in return.|its a sad day in america when foreign governments with deep pockets have more influence in our own country than our great citizens.|i didnt need to do this. its not easy. believe me. i didnt need to do it. but i felt i had to give back to our wonderful country, which|has been so good to me and to my family.|ive traveled to many of our states and seen the suffering in peoples lives.|ive visited communities in new york, new jersey, pennsylvania, connecticut, indiana, and ohio whose manufacturing jobs they literally these|jobs have virtually disappeared. an embarrassment to our country and its horrible.|ive embraced the victims of illegal immigration moms and dads who have had to bury their own children because of people that shouldnt|have been in the country. remember it, folks. remember it.|ive visited the crumbling cities and the struggling schools.|ive seen our dilapidated airports, highways, bridges, and ive compared them to other countries where we see facilities so far superior to|ours. its really not to be believed. hard to imagine whats happened to our country.|america is getting taken apart piece by piece, auctioned off, and just rapidly auctioned off to the highest bidder.|were broke. were broke. we owe $19 trillion. going quickly to $21 trillion.|our infrastructure is a disaster. our schools are failing. crime is rising. people are scared.|the last thing we need is hillary clinton in the white house or an extension of the obama disaster.|what a crowd. what a crowd. thank you all very much. we love our country. we love our country.|but we can turn this all around. were going to do it by putting america first.|that commitment is the foundation for change thats been missing and its been missing for a long time.|its important to understand what america first means.|it means on foreign policy, we will never enter into any conflict unless it makes us safer as a nation. it has to make us safer as a nation.|this is the opposite of hillarys foreign policy, which invaded libya, destabilized iraq, unleashed isis and threw syria into chaos and created the|mass migration, which is wrecking havoc all over the world and while putting iran on the path to nuclear weapons and making them a dominant power in the|middle east. and they are dominant and we have made them that way, folks, we have made them that way.|better hope im president.|on trade, america first means the american worker will have his or her job protected from unfair foreign competition whats happening here is|absolutely a disgrace.|no ppp . youre right about that. so and you mean no pp.|we are going and remember this we are only going to have great trade deals. okay? we are only going to have that.|were not going to approve as somebody just said the trans-pacific partnership, which is a disaster a disaster for our country. almost|as bad as nafta signed by bill clinton, which has just stripped our country of our factories and our manufacturing and moved them to other places and in|particular mexico.|if its not a great deal for our country, we will not sign it. its got to be great for our country, for our community, for everybody in here|because believe me we are all suffering and were suffering big league and its getting worse.|on energy policy, america first means opening up americas great potential to bring wealth and prosperity to our own workers, including our|wonderful and hardworking miners who have been absolutely totally mistreated by this administration.|on economic policy, america first means having tax and regulatory policies that keep jobs and wealth in the united states, substantially lowering taxes|for middle class americans and businesses. likewise, regulation which is strangling our economy which would be brought down from its present insane|level, we will make it very, very good for our companies, for our small businesses, and for people that want to survive and do well in our country.|on immigration policy, america first means protecting the jobs, wages, and security of american workers. whether first or tenth generation, no matter|who you are, were going to protect your job because let me tell you, our jobs are being stripped from our country like were babies.|the beauty of america first is that it brings us all together. every american worker of every background is entitled to the same benefits, protections|and rights and privileges. its got to be that way.|now, the people in charge say things cant change. im here today to tell you that we have to change. we have no choice. we have to change.|were going to put america back to work. were going to make our own products. were going to put america back to work.|were going to rebuild our inner cities, which are absolutely a shame and so sad, going to take care of our african-american people that have been|mistreated for so long.|were going to make you and your families safe, secure, and prosperous. prosperous again.|together, we will put the american people first again. first again.|we will make our communities wealthy. we will make our cities safe again. we will make our country strong again.|ladies and gentlemen, we will make america great again! remember. thank you!|thank you! thank you very much everybody!|thank you, everybody. thank you very much. this has been a great period of time. its been really amazing.|weve gotten the nomination. were going to have an incredible period in cleveland. we look forward to it.|weve started working already on the convention.|and lebron, good luck in the series because were going to have the series, which of course the longer it goes the less time we have but thats|okay. and its going to be very interesting to see what happens.|but as you know, theyre playing the basketball championships partially in that arena so i think it will be very exciting. itll add to the|excitement in cleveland and thats good. thats what we want because its going to be an exciting period of time.|we have weve done some awfully good work. i was just informed that weve got more votes than anybody in the history of the republican|primaries and we still have i guess six or seven locations to go, states to go.|and in the history, think of it, in the history of this great party, weve gotten substantially more votes than anybody else by millions by|many millions more than anybody whos ever run.|so thats a great. you know, when you think dwight eisenhower and ronald reagan and everybody, we have the most votes by far. so thats|something to me thats very exciting.|and overall, its just been a very exciting process. i think were going to do very well.|we have no idea whats going to happen on the democrats side but theyre certainly having difficulty. i dont like to see people having|difficulty. but if anybody has to have it, let it be them.|and i think its going to be very interesting.|im very proud to say that weve gotten the most votes and also if you look at the overall primary the amount of votes cast, thats also a|record. so weve broken a lot of records in terms of the voters.|our polling has come out and the polls are doing very well as you know. were pretty much even and in some cases ahead of hillary. and i think|were going to have a very, very successful number of months. and i think it will all culminate in november and were going to make america|great. okay?|so thats the way it is |im glad you asked the question because i have to tell you i have raised a tremendous amount of money for the vets almost $6 million. and more|money is going to come in i believe over the next little while too.|but ive raised almost $6 million. all of the money has been paid out and im going to give it to you in just a second.|in fact, i brought a list just in case that question was asked.|but the money has been paid out.|i have been thanked by so many veterans groups throughout the united states.|one gentleman called me up recently crying that out of a blue he got a check for $100,000. i have been thanked by so many groups great|veterans groups.|and by the way, outside you have a few people picketing. theyre sent there by hillary clinton and theyre picketing that the money wasnt|sent. the money has all been sent.|i wanted to keep it private. if we could, i wanted to keep it private because i dont think its anybodys business if i want to send money|to the vets.|but i have to say this. i raised close to $6 million. itll probably be over that amount when its all said and done. but as of this moment,|its $5.6 million.|when this started, it started with a speech in iowa when i said lets raise some money for the vets and it went up from $1 million to $2 million to|$3 million. and it now ends up to be almost $6 million and again i think we can even do better than that.|but i will say that the press should be ashamed of themselves.|and behalf of the vets, the press should be ashamed of themselves. they are calling me. they are furious because i sent people checks of a lot of money.|were going to give you the names right now, which is what you want.|and instead of being like "thank you very much, mr. trump" or "trump did a good job", everyone said, "who got it? who got it? who got it?" and you make|me look very bad.|i have never received such bad publicity for doing such a good job.|so i will give the names because thats what you want. right?|okay. are you ready?|i brought them here. it takes because you have to vet each company. you know, much of this money was paid out fairly early.|but you have to vet all of these different groups because these are many different groups. you have to go through a process. when you send checks for|hundreds of thousands of dollars to people and to companies and to groups that youve never heard of charitable organizations. you have to vet|it. you send people out. you do a lot of work.|now, most of the money went out quite a while ago. some of it went out more recently. but all of this has gone out and ill give you the names.|are you ready? do you have your pad?|and again, i really think the press look, the media, you know my opinion of the media. its very low. i think the media is frankly made up of|people that, in many cases, not in all cases, are not good people. but i think this is an example.|and i just on behalf of all of the folks that have worked hard on this and all of the people that have made contributions, including myself; i gave $1|million, but i just want to tell you that there are so many people that are so thankful for what we did.|one other thing thats important to know. zero dollars have been taken out for administration.|you know, when you go to a lot of these different groups, in this case, zero dollars have been taken out for administration. so a lot of these companies|that make a lot of money doing the administration stuff. so no money it costs zero dollars to accumulate all of this money. okay?|so you have 22 kill and thats $200,000.|and you can call these people. that was another thing. a lot of the money when it was sent out, different people would call. i could tell you, im|not going to mention anybody specifically, but there were a couple of people that were really disgusting. theyd call and these vet groups they|dont get a lot of calls from the press. and maybe some of them would keep quiet or they didnt know or they didnt want to talk to the|press or they didnt feel comfortable.|so if they didnt say they got the money, which they all did, 100% got the money. all certified checks. if anyone wants to see the certified checks.|but rather than say why dont you could i see a certified check? they said "well, they didnt say they got the money." they all got the|money.|but theyre not people that always talk to the press. many of them do talk to the press. many of them have i guess you found $2 million or|$2.5 million where they talked.|well, the number is $5.6 million and its going to possibly go above that because i believe some other people are coming in.|ready?|22kill got $200,000.|now, these are checks that have been delivered, that have been cashed, that are now being used to help the vets.|achilles international great organization $200,000. much of this money was paid a long time ago.|american hero adventures $100,000.|americans for equal living $100,000.|americas vetdogs the veterans k-9 corps inc. $75,000.|amvets $75,000.|just so you understand. when i didnt do the fox debate because i didnt think they treated me right but actually theyve been extremely|fair over the last three or four months, i have to say that about fox. but when i didnt do that one event, the debate, i gave a speech. i|didnt have to do this with the money for the vets but i decided to because i thought it would be a good idea.|and i had some very generous people carl icahn gave $500,000. phil ruffin gave $1 million ike perlmutter gave $1 million. we raised a lot of|money. and i didnt have to do that. it would have been easier just to give the speech.|and the problem with the press what they do is they convince people like me not to do it, not to give money to different things because its a lot|easier actually that way.|and i believe were going to have some more coming in. some friends of mine, some more coming in. and that adds up to $5,600,000 total and were|going to have some more coming in.|now, every one of those checks have been passed other than the one check which is being held subject to theyre getting a final approval from the|government. but every one of those has been passed.|this is my check for $1 million.|we have many letters from the different groups thanking us very much for the money and they didnt ask i didnt ask people to be here|today. i could have asked every one of the group unlike hillary who asks people to stand outside and say "donald trump didnt give the money."|nobody gave this kind of money.|so i gave $5,600,000. more is coming in. probably tops the $6 million number.|i never thought we were going to raise $1 million when we started. and we end up doing almost $6 million.|i have to tell you the press is so dishonest and so unfair.|a lot of the people behind me and some of the people over here helped in vetting the various requests for money. and i just want to thank all of those|people.|i wasnt too involved in picking the organizations other than to the marine law enforcement. they are fabulous people. they honored me last year at|the waldorf astoria. i knew them.|i was going to give it to three companies or three groups and we couldnt vet them quickly. and so i gave it to the marine.|and if you look at number, the marine corps law enforcement foundation is a fabulous group and i didnt have to go through a big vetting process|with them. because i was going to split the $1 million check up amongst and in the end i just didnt want to go through the process of having to|vet all those different groups.|because i wanted to make this out of the goodness of my heart. i didnt want to do this where the press is all involved and all of a sudden|everybody is going "where did it go? who did it go to?" then we said who it went to, then we said how much was it.|look, when this started i said if we could raise $1 million that would be good. and we ended up raising almost $6 million. and im going to|have more coming in over a period of time.|im totally accountable but i didnt want to have credit for it.|actually though what i got was worse than credit because they were questioning me. and this is money. and by the way, most of that money went out very|early just so you understand. but a lot of these groups getting vetted by, you know, when you pay the money out, they need government|documentation. they need a lot of different things.|plus, we want to find out whos in the good group.|i had people teams of people reviewing statistics, reviewing numbers and also talking to people in the military to find out whether or not|the group was deserving of the money.|we have given to groups that are unbelievable groups. and honestly, i wish you could hear the phone calls and see the letters. they are so happy. and|im happy to do it. i didnt want the credit for it but it was very unfair that the press treated us so badly.|well, generally speaking, thats 100% true.|i like scrutiny. but you know what? when i raise money excuse me, excuse me, ive watched you on television. youre a real beauty. when i|raise money for the veterans and its a massive amount of money find out how much hillary clinton has given to the veterans nothing.|and then i see a few guys standing out there. they dont even know what theyre there for. they have no idea. theyre there because hillary|clintons campaign sent them.|and actually i think it was you or one of you that found out that they actually were with hillary clintons campaign, which was interesting but i|wasnt surprised.|i dont want the credit for it but i shouldnt be lambasted.|and remember this: so out of the almost $6 million that was raised not one penny did i take for administration cost. thats unheard of.|how else am i going to raise the money? how else am i going to raise the money?|i would have given just so you understand. until i was criticized so im the only one in the world that could raise almost $6 million|for the veterans, have uniform applause by the veterans groups, and end up being criticized by the press.|yes, i made a speech and during the speech i said, "lets raise a little money for the vets." it turned out to be a lot of money, not a little|money. i thought if we could get to $1 million, it would be great, which it would have been.|thats right. i do raise millions.|no, i dont think so.|no, i raised almost $6 million. some of it didnt come through. but more money is coming through than didnt come through. the number probably|is going to be when we finish it probably going to be over the $6 million.|i dont mind it coming from the opposition what i do mind is when i raise all of these millions and when we started out nobody ever thought it was|going to be over $5 million or close to $6 .|so, look, heres the story. heres the story. i think and ive been dealing with the press a long time. i think the political press is among|the most dishonest people ive ever met, i have to tell you that. okay?|but i think the political press i think the political press i see the stories and i see the way theyre attached.|for instance, i went down this weekend to do rolling thunder. i was invited. i didnt have anything to do with it. we had a tremendous gathering of|people thousands i dont know how many thousands but many thousands of people. and i joked "oh, i thought we were going to go from|the jefferson memorial to the " i was joking. they said "donald trump was disappointed". everybody knew i was being sarcastic and joking. they|said some of them. said donald trump was very disappointed that it didnt go from jefferson to lincoln. you know, millions of people.|i was joking. i said "oh, im used to watching it. we had " i was joking. so they put it down as serious. they know i was joking.|ill give you another example. we had a certain same event it was roped off where you could only get so many people there and there were|a lot of people. i dont know 10,000, 15,000, maybe 25,000. i dont know there was a lot of people. plus there were people breaking the|seams all the way along.|eugene washington, a man i like actually, wrote an article said there were 5,000 people there. there were many times that. and you werent allowed|to have any more people.|and all of these people were with their motorcycles in parking lots all the way. they were waving to me as im going.|but wait a minute. the point is law enforcement these people didnt allow you to have any more people.|i had a tremendous crowd but it was the biggest crowd you could have had. it was all cordoned off. you werent allowed to have any more. you|werent allowed to have any more people than that.|so instead of saying trump made a speech in front of a packed crowd, they said "trump was disappointed" because i didnt have millions of people|going from jefferson to washington. i mean, give me a break.|honestly, its dishonest reporting.|well, the veterans believe me. let me tell you, the veterans why they believe. and i have group that i gave|i could have asked all these groups he just showed up. i just saw him. but i could have asked all these groups to come here and they could have|made i didnt want to do that.|im not looking for credit. but what i dont want is when i raise millions of dollars have people say like this sleazy guy over here from abc|hes a sleaze in my book. youre a sleaze because you know the facts and you know the facts well.|veteran:|thank you, mr. trump.|first of all for the record, im a state representative from new hampshire, 10 years on the veterans affairs committee, 22 years in the marine|corps, retired first sergeant.|what i want to clarify here first of all, i would never ever in a million years put my name on a candidate that did not from his heart look me in the|eye and tell me hes concerned about veterans. thats donald trump. i met him over a year ago.|ive been involved in many fundraisers. there are many scammers out there. he did the right thing by vetting these groups there.|if you look at some of the groups, theyre given 20 cents, 40 cents on the dollar and theyre spending the rest for you know their nice lavish|trips. he gave 100%.|the liberal media is the only ones that have been calling the foundation. all right? im a former chairman. ive been dealing with this stuff|for years as a veterans activist.|stop using veterans as a political pawns. youve got a guy outside go do a google search on his facebook. hes out there. his pictures with|clinton.|they are using veterans as political pawns. it must stop.|donald trump is doing this with a heart. youre all focused on the way hes raising money and youre not looking at the 22 veterans that are|killing each other everyday. youre not concerned about the thousands of veterans that are on waitlists.|look at his plans on his trump website. he talks about medical cards. he talks about fixing the va. he talks about competition.|i think the liberal media and ive been dealing with you a long time. you need to get your head out of your butt. focus on the real issues.|thank you.|what i did i didnt ask al. ive gotten to know al a little bit primarily through new hampshire where we had great victories. but he|showed up this morning because he was upset.|and many of the other groups were upset. they received $100,000 in the mail. they didnt even know what it was for. it was from me. other groups|received $200,000, $250,000. they didnt know what it was for.|and again, upstairs i have received phones calls with people crying. i have received letters heartfelt letters.|the bad part about the dishonesty of the media is that people like me will be inclined not to do it anymore. because why should you raise $5.6|million and i think ill go over $6 million pretty easily. nobody said that we started this out as a small little project where it was less than $1|million because it kept just mushrooming and building and building. but nobody talks about that.|so we raised $5.6 million. we have so many happy groups. so many happy veterans.|and then i see these hillary clinton people outside. now, of course, they dont know the extent. they probably figured based on reading the press|that trump didnt make, you know, didnt raise this kind of money.|but we raised a lot and ill be raising more and well be sending it to other people as we get along.|its a complicated process.|no, it doesnt you know, the government sort of approves different groups for a lot of reasons. so it really does and more than anything|else, its also speaking to other veterans. we have a circle of veterans. i dont want to send a $250,000 check to a group that doesnt do|good work. so its called vetting. we vet the vets. but its called vetting.|i think its bothersome because i love the vets and ive worked hard for the vets. and as you can see, ive given a lot of money and raised|a lot of money for the vets.|and i think when the press portrays it differently, the press is being very dishonest. so i dont like that. i dont like dishonesty.|jeff sessions is a fantastic man. jeff sessions is one of the most highly respected people in the united states senate.|jeff sessions is a person that i believe that ted cruz has the most respect for and i think ted thought that he would get an endorsement.|you know, jeff sessions has never endorsed a presidential candidate before as many years as hes been in the senate.|so you know, jeff sessions is certainly somebody that i would consider. absolutely. hes a fantastic person.|i think it was a very tough call. it was amazing because there were moments with the gorilla the way he held that child that almost like a mother|holding a baby looks so beautiful and calm. and there were moments where it looked pretty dangerous. i dont think they had a choice. i mean,|probably they didnt have a choice.|you have a child, a young child, at stake. you know, its too bad there wasnt another way.|i thought it was so beautiful to watch that powerful almost 500 pound gorilla and the way he dealt with that little boy. but it just takes one second.|its one second its not like it takes place over well, hes going to do it 30 seconds from now. it just takes one little flick|of his finger. and i will tell you they probably had no choice.|im entirely in favor of fixing the va health care. va is one of the great catastrophes in this country whats going on.|you look at whats happening in phoenix and different places throughout the country where theyre catching people stealing and they dont|even fire them, where people are waiting five days, six days, seven days on line. theyre dying while they wait on line.|and i am in favor of if they cant get to a doctor within a reasonable period of time, theyre going to see a doctor and the countrys going|to pay for it. theyre going to go to a private doctor or a public hospital and a public doctor but some place that can take them immediately.|were losing thousands of people waiting on line.|and the veterans administration is run by obama just as incompetently as hes running our country.|you look at the tsa, you look at whats going on at the airports and you look at that. okay? just take a look at that. thats like the veterans|administration.|nothing in our country works anymore. its a mess.|and maybe thats why im doing so well in the polls.|no, it doesnt have to be privatization. no, it doesnt have to be privatization. what it has to be is when somebodys on line and they say|its going to be a seven day wait, that person is going to walk over to across the street to a private doctor, be taken care of. were going to|pay the bill.|and by the way, thats going to be a lot less expensive. and well check it out and be careful. but thats going to be a lot less expensive|than whats going on.|these people are living in hell.|and hillary clinton said the veterans administration is working just fine. and the head of it, mcdonald said last week that waiting in line is not|bad look at disney world. okay? these are the kind of people we have running things. its ridiculous.|thats their choice. you have a party called the democrats and theyre going to have to make that choice. i think its probably going to|be her because its rigged.|and i think if you people will say im the one that came up with the term "rigged". i used it for myself, except that i won by such big margins that|the whole system is rigged on both sides. with the republicans its less obvious. with democrats with the whole super delegate thing, its|ridiculous.|so i think that theyre going to have to make that determination.|if youre asking me who i prefer running against?|i think what she did was very bad and i think a lot of people have done a lot less than her and their lives have been destroyed.|the judge has been very unfair. has not done a good job. hes been a very bad judge. has been very unfair. and i will win the trump university case.|i already am as far as im concerned. but i will win the trump university case.|because i dont care |i have a judge whos very, very unfair.|well, youll see it in court documents. but i have a judge whos very, very unfair. he knows hes unfair. and ill win the trump|university case. i can settle that case. i could have settled it. i just choose not to.|in fact, when i ran this, they said why didnt you settle up that case? i dont want to settle the case.|because you know what? because im a man of principle. and most of the people that took those courses have letters saying they thought it was great|essentially. it was good. it was great.|and you know what? when theyre on the stand and you say "how come you signed the letter saying that trump university was so good? how come you|signed the letter?"|the woman that was the original plaintiff in the case they went to the court and the judge allowed her to get out of the case. the case should|have been dropped. the whole case should have been dropped.|they wanted her dismissed from the case. you know why? because she was deposed, she was such a bad witness that wed win the case easily. she signed|a letter and shes on film. shes on tape like these cameras saying unbelievably good things about trump university. so they didnt want her|anymore because shes a disaster for them.|so they went to the judge and they said "your honor, wed like to have her not be a participant, not be a plaintiff in the case." and he said, "oh,|thats okay." shes the one that started the case.|now, they dont even want her to testify. they dont want her to testify because shes a disaster. she has all sorts of beautiful statements|about it. and importantly, shes on tape saying how great it is. they dont want her. i wouldnt want her either.|now, i could have settled that case. i could settle that case. i can settle that case. i dont want to. ill go through the process.|because were down the line. because were down the line and the fact that you cant win as independent. for the most part, you cant|even get on texas and various other states now. its too late. but texas is out.|heres what happens. what happens is you will not have and very importantly you will not have supreme court justices. youre|going to lose. you could have as many as four or five. thats over.|now, kristols the one thats but hes the last one. dont forget, he said "trump will never run." the guys not a|smart person. he said, "donald trump would never run." remember?|you remember? i actually blame you. why do you put this guy on television? i see him on the different shows. hes got no credibility. said i|wont run. if i run, i wont do well. if i do well, this and that. he looks like such a fool.|i saw him on one show. hes practically crying because he cant justify.|now he comes out with a tweet over the weekend over memorial day weekend it sounds like hes going to put somebody up. even i thought|it. i thought, "oh, theyre going to find indie."|now he comes out with something saying he was almost almost kidding. okay?|let me tell you, these people are losers. hes trying to make you hes trying to drive you guys a little bit nuts.|if they do an indie, assuming its decent, which i dont think anybody with a reputation would do it because theyd look like fools. but|what youre going to do is you lose the election for the republicans and therefore you lose the supreme court, therefore you will have a group of|people put on the supreme court where this country will never ever recover. it will never, ever be the same.|no, i didnt say that. i said bill kristol is a loser and ill tell you why he has called every single move. take a look on me, hes|going to lose this state i won in a landslide i didnt say everybody. many. i didnt say everybody.|wait, wait, wait. bill kristol is a loser. his magazine is failing, as you know. its going to be down i dont think it even survives.|hes getting some free publicity.|but bill kristol ive been watching this for two years. "trump isnt going to run." then i go into a race, we go into new hampshire. "oh,|hes not going to win new hampshire." i win in a landslide. every place i went i was not going to win. but i win in a landslide. do you think maybe|he doesnt like me?|its wrong. its wrong. i didnt get 30%.|my last score was 78%. i didnt get 30%.|i dont know. no, no, no.|heres the way i look at it.|when i have somebody thats not on my side, when you know by the way, ive gotten great applause from the press in terms of as an|achievement because the republican party is really well unified.|we have come up. people that you would have never thought possible are now saying, "i support trump." so remember that. we dont talk about that too|much.|but actually last week, the big story was how fast the republican party is healing because it is a healing process. it was a rough that was a|rough campaign |i can this. the real is how fast were getting together.|now, if i have a republican whos not on my side, im not going to be why should i be particularly nice to that person? im not going|to go after it like i would hillary or crazy bernie. but you know what? why should i be nice to that person if i have a person thats not going to|support me? i have no obligation.|politically, i may be right. i may be wrong. but thats who i am. im a very honest person |if somebody is going to say a little bit negative or a lot negative about me and if they happen to be republican, i may choose to hit them back. not|always. but i may choose to hit them back.|im not a fan of mitt romney. mitt romney lost an election he should have won.|and if you read the front page of the wall street journal about mitt romney, he looks like a fool.|look, im not a fan of mitt romney. just so you understand. i raised a lot of money for mitt romney. i made robocalls for mitt romney. i made|speeches for him. he let us down.|if you read the front page of the wall street journal this weekend, mitt romney looks like a fool.|now, what would i say good about mitt romney?|she was not nice and i was fine, just a little bit of a jab. but she wasnt nice. and you think im going to change? im not changing,|including with her.|bob dole is a fan of mine. bob dole endorsed me. so dont tell me about bob dole.|well, look, gary johnson, he got 1% of the vote last time. i watched that whole situation. it was pretty disgraceful. i think its a total fringe|deal. i think hes a fringe candidate if you want to know the truth. i look at him and i watch him and i watch his motions and i watch what he says.|i think that he is a fringe candidate when you do a little research on that i think its not going to be a factor. okay?|no, not all of you. just many of you.|yeah, it is. yeah, it is. let me tell you something. im a person yeah, its going to be like this if the press writes false stories|like they did with this half of you were amazed that i raised all of this money. if the press writes false stories like they did where i wanted to|keep a low profile. i didnt want the credit for raising all this money for the vets. i wasnt looking for the credit.|and by the way, more money is coming in. i wasnt looking for the credit.|but i had no choice but to do this because the press was saying i didnt raise any money for them.|not only did i raise it, much of it was given a long time ago. and there is a vetting process and i think you understand that.|but when i raise almost $6 million and probably in the end will raise more than six because more is going to come in and is coming in. but when i raise|$5.6 million as of today, more is coming in. and this is going to phenomenal groups.|and i have many of these people vetting the people getting the money and working hard. and then we have to read probably libelous stories or certainly|close in the newspapers and the people know the stories are false, im going to continue to attack the press.|look, i find the press to be extremely dishonest. i find the political press to be unbelievably dishonest. i will say that.|okay, thank you all very much. thank you. thank you very much.|well, thank you very much everyone.|i want to start by, as always, thanking my family. my wife, melania. my kids theyre not kids anymore but theyre kids as far as im|concerned. theyll always be my kids. and i want to thank my great parents who are looking down right now and my brother looking down on us. i want|to thank my entire family, including maryanne, elizabeth, robert.|and its been some unbelievable day and evening and year. i never have been through anything like this but its a beautiful thing to watch and a|beautiful thing to behold, and were going to make america great again. were going to make america great again.|so important so important that the people of indiana have been incredible.|i started as you know not very long ago about six weeks ago and i was told that i had a 20 point deficit.|and i went there and i worked very hard and i campaigned and i made lots of speeches and met lots of incredible people incredible people. you|dont get better, and the crowds got bigger and bigger. and toward the end, it was like i didnt want to leave. i almost said, "maybe ill|just never leave" and it resonated somehow and we have a tremendous victory tonight.|it was a tremendous victory.|and i have to thank bobby knight. boy, bobby knight was incredible. he was incredible.|i always that people like that there arent many but its called tough, smart, and they know how to win. and thats what our|country needs. we have to win again. we have to know how to win.|and we havent won. weve been losing all the time. we lose with our military. we cant beat isis. we lose with trade. we lose with borders.|we lose everything.|were not going to lose. were going to start winning again and were going to win big league. believe me.|so when i got back tonight and i started watching all of the different networks, i could immediately that we were doing very well, and it really looks|like a massive victory and it looks like we win all 57 delegates.|and i must say in staying in various places in indiana, i turned on the television and all i saw was negative ads, negative one after another after|another.|and i called my people and i said, "how can we win? its just constantly." it was the same as in florida. you know, thereve been 60,000|negative ads.|i got it right from you folks, okay? 60,000. in fact, two weeks ago it was 55,000. now its 60,000 negative ads most of which are absolutely|false and disgusting. and i said how can anybody endure this?|i had one evening two nights ago where literally they had five ads on in between segments of a show that i was watching. and i said thats just|incredible.|and the people are so smart. they dont buy it. they get it.|and its tremendous, tremendous amounts of money were spent millions and millions of dollars. and they were comparing it. they think it was|probably $8 million was spent against me and we spent $900,000. so, i mean, to me thats the way its supposed to be. thats something that|makes me feel really, really very good.|and now were going to nebraska where i have i just hear were doing really wonderfully. i look forward to that very much.|and west virginia. and were going to get those miners back to work. ill tell you what. were going to get those miners back to work.|were not going to be hillary clinton, and i watched her three or four weeks ago where she was talking about the miners as if they were just numbers|and she was talking about she wants the mines closed and she will never let them work again.|let me tell you, the miners in west virginia and pennsylvania which was so great to me last week and ohio and all over, theyre going to start to|work again. believe me. youre going to be proud again to be miners.|so well be going there. i must say this tremendous run that weve had started with new york when we had almost 62%. and dont forget,|thats with three people. so 62% with two people is a massive landslide. but 63% almost just a little over 62% when you have that kind|of a number with three people, its actually unheard of.|and all throughout, it was 17 people, then 15, then 12, you know, its tremendous, and we were getting very high numbers. and some of the numbers in|my opinion that i got in the early stages were in a state with 32% but there were 14 people. i think that might actually be more and better than getting|62% in new york. but we never got the credit for that.|but now we dont need the credit because were going after hillary clinton. she will not be a great president. she will not be a good president.|she will be a poor president.|she doesnt understand trade. her husband signed perhaps in the history of the world the single worst trade deal ever done. its called nafta.|and i was witnessed to the carnage over the last six weeks especially. now ive known syracuse and ive known poughkeepsie and ive known|all of the different places that i visited in new york and then pennsylvania and then maryland, which treated me so great the people are incredible.|and all of the different state connecticut. and ive witnessed what its done really firsthand. and it has been indeed carnage.|and were going to change it around.|were not going to let carrier and all of these companies just think they can move go to another country, make their products, sell it back to|us, and we get only one thing: we get unemployment. not going to happen anymore, folks. not going to happen anymore.|were going to bring back our jobs and were going to keep our jobs. were not going to let companies leave.|now, if they want to go to a different state, good luck, compete.|but when they start going to different countries and in many cases countries that devalue their currency and make it impossible for our companies to|compete, thats not going to happen. not going to happen.|and if they want to do it anyway, there will be consequences, and there will be very, very serious consequences.|i have to tell you that ive competed all my life. competitive person. all my life ive been in competitions. different competitions whether|its sports or business or now for 10 months politics.|and i have to tell you that i have met some of the most incredible competitors that i have ever competed against right here on the republican party.|you know, we started off with that 17 number. and just so you understand ted cruz i dont know if he likes me or if he doesnt like|me. but he is one hell of a competitor. he is a tough, smart guy.|and he has got an amazing future. hes got an amazing future. so i want to congratulate ted.|and i know how tough it is. its tough. its tough.|ive had some moments where its not looking so good, and its not a great feeling. and so i understand how ted feels and heidi and their|whole beautiful family.|and i just want to say that one tough competitor and i can say that for the others. i mean, chris christie who endorsed me. incredible guy. dr. ben|carson who was right up there, one of the first. he just called me and said, "its a movement youve got going. weve got to do something|because ill tell you what, its an incredible movement." and dr. ben carson endorsed me. and i want to tell you that is an incredible man and|we want to keep ben totally involved because were going to win. were going to win in november.|and were going to win big and its going to be america first.|you know, i made a speech the other day and i talked about how were the policemen for the world, how we protect other countries and they dont|respect us and they dont take care of us and they dont treat us right in many cases.|and thats not going to happen.|now, were going to keep things going and were going to keep things going very nicely but we owe soon $21 trillion. its $19|trillion now but with a budget that was recently done, soon it will be $21 trillion.|and were just not in a position that were in 30 years ago, 40 years ago, 50 years ago when a lot of these things took place and began taking|place.|so, were going to have unbelievably good relationships with other countries.|but likewise they have to treat us fairly and they have to understand that what weve been doing over the years has been so wrong and so unfair to|the united states, to its people, and to its taxpayers.|so that will change. and i will tell you, theyre going to end up liking us better than they do right. theyre going to respect us.|in this building right upstairs, i have the largest bank in the world from china. the relationship is fantastic.|we have great relationships with many foreign countries. but they have to respect us and they have to understand where were coming from.|and you know, it is a two-way street. and the two-way street means that were going down one side and theyre coming up the other. and were|going to meet and we are going to have something thats going to be really fabulous.|now, if that cant happen. if for some reason they want this system to continue the way its going now, which is not fair and not good, where|were spending trillions and trillions of dollars probably $4 trillion in the middle east.|and we have to build our infrastructure, our roads. we have to rebuild our bridges, our airports, our hospitals in this country.|weve become close to a third world country. you look at some of our airports; its third world. and then you go to other countries and you see|places like youve never seen.|so i have to say that we are going to turn it around.|were going to build up our military bigger, better, stronger than ever before. its the cheapest thing we can do. and were going to have|to take out isis and were going to have to take them out fast. we cant allow that cancer to continue. we cannot allow it to continue.|and you know, one group thats been so incredible to me are the vets the veterans. and theyve been treated so badly. so badly. and|were going to get that straightened out.|now, one of the things that just happened, which to me is very exciting and its happened now with two or three. but the rasmussen poll came out|yesterday and in that poll, im now leading hillary clinton. a lot of good things |and thats going to continue because theyre not going to be able to do it, folks.|theyre not going to be able to make great trade deals. we have such bad deals.|theyre not going to be able to do what we do with the military.|theyre not going to be able to do what were going to do on the border, including the wall.|were going to have unbelievably great relationships with the hispanics. the hispanics have been so incredible to me. they want jobs. everybody want|jobs. the african-americans want jobs. you look at whats going on. they want jobs.|and were going to bring back our jobs. were going to save our jobs and people are going to have great jobs again.|and this country, which is very, very divided in so many different ways is going to become one beautiful loving country. and were going to love|each other. were going to cherish each other. were going to take care of each other. and were going to have great economic development.|and were not going to let other countries take it away from us because thats whats been happening for far too many years and were|not going to do it anymore. were not going to do it anymore.|i want to thank and congratulate the republican national committee and reince priebus, who i just spoke to. hes doing a tremendous job. its|not an easy job when he had 17 egos and now i guess hes down to one.|i dont know. is there a second? i mean, is there a second? i dont know.|but i have ask you folks to explain the status of that.|but hes done an amazing job and i think were going to see something really, really fantastic.|i also want to thank my staff, paul, cory, pope. i mean, these people. what weve been doing has been incredible.|the work has been unreal.|and jared , married to my daughter ivanka. i mean, honestly, you know jared is a very successful real estate person but i actually think he|likes politics more than he likes real estate. im excited. and hes very good at politics.|so again folks this has been an amazing evening. i didnt expect this. i didnt expect it.|and what ted did is really a very brave thing to do and a great thing to do because we want to bring unity to the republican party. we have to bring|unity. its so much easier if we have it.|and many, many people are calling that you wouldnt even believe the media, the press, they wouldnt believe. people who have said the|worst things about me ive never had things said about me like this.|you know, with my businesses, ive always been very respected. people didnt talk to me this way. but in politics, its easy.|the worst things and theyre calling now and theyre calling us all and theyre saying, "wed love to get on the train" the "trump|train" they call it "but wed love to get on the team."|and i actually spoke to one today who was vicious. i mean, this guy was unbelievable. and i said, "id love having you and i think its|terrific. but after what you said about me how can you possibly join our team?" and he said, "mr. trump, dont even think about it. dont worry|about it. therell be no problem." in other words, hes a politician; theres no problem. i would have had a hard time.|but we have a lot of people coming lots of congressmen. i have to thank jeff sessions sen. jeff sessions one of the most respected men|or people in congress.|and so many others. i mean, sarah palin has been from day one incredible.|jerry falwell, jr. liberty university, i mean he is something. he is really a special person. theyve done an incredible job and everybody goes|through liberty. we all go through liberty and somehow he liked what i was saying and perhaps he liked the way i said it. but hes a special guy and|he really has helped. and so many pastors and ministers.|and tonight, i see that i won with the evangelicals. the evangelical vote was for trump.|and theres no greater honor. no greater honor. were going to work together for many, many years. were going to make it so good. were|going to be saying merry christmas again. were going to be saying it |and i won with women. i love winning with women. but i won with women. i won with men. we won with hispanics. we won with african-americans. we won with|every virtually every category. so its just been an amazing evening.|so again, i want to congratulate ted cruz. he is a tough, smart competitor. i want to thank my wife and my family. its an incredible family.|i want to thank my staff both my staff and my thousands and thousands of people that work for the trump organization, and perhaps in all fairness|more importantly on this evening and for what were doing currently, my staff where were running for the presidency.|and remember this. our theme is very simple. its make america great. we will make america great again. we will start winning again. you will be so|proud of this country very, very soon.|thank you all. thank you very much. thank you! thank you very much!|so beautiful. she said, "do you mind? i wrote something coming out, i wrote something. do you mind if i said it?" i said, "not at all. should i|read it?" she said, "i dont want you to read it. i dont want you to read it."|thank you very much. i want to thank melania for that. that was very special.|you know, wisconsins a really special place, and weve been all over today. speeches all over. we had one before. thousands and thousands of|people standing outside of an airplane hangar because the hangar was packed. and we had another one in the morning, and its been an amazing day,|and some phenomenal results.|you see whats happening with the polls. boom! like a rocket ship. its like a rocket.|i guess i just heard when i walked in one just came out that were 10 points up. but dont worry about that. pretend you didnt hear that.|go out and vote tomorrow. okay? go out and vote tomorrow.|you know, i always tell i used to say this to politicians that run thatd be friends of mine, id say, "pretend youre a little bit|behind. okay? that way youd work hard. youd never forget."|but you know, theres somebody that was i saw just a little while ago in the audience a very special woman, an incredible woman, and melania|just said hello and met her was so taken, and she represented you so beautifully. and some of you know who she is. many of you know who she is.|but she was miss wisconsin. she has one of the most incredible spirits that ive ever seen. shes got her husband and her son and her son is|absolutely magnificent and she loves him more than anything that you can imagine.|ill tell you thats an amazing and just an incredible story and were going to make sure that it goes as well as it can.|she was so amazing the way she walked up here and just spoke from the heart, and we all have to speak from the heart.|and you noticed no teleprompters? we dont have teleprompters. we want to do it right from here and from here and from here.|but i just want to i saw melissa, and i said, "i have to have you up" because her storys an amazing story and its a story of courage and|were going to work with her family and were going to make sure everything goes well.|okay, thank you all very much.|so, in coming over today and in going through a few of them, i said to a few of the folks ive got to explain whats happening because our|country is being decimated by stupidity, by bad deals, by horrible trades, by tpp, which cruz wants badly and which is going to destroy wisconsin.|this trans-pacific partnership is a disaster. cruz is pushing it hard.|kasich, i dont think hes a player here. i mean, the guy is one in 32. hes one and it was in his own state. and if i would have campaigned|there two more days instead of staying in florida, i would have won in my opinion ohio. hes one and 32.|now, in all fairness, jeb bush was doing a lot better than that. many people were doing better. its called you get out. hes taking my votes.|we have to get over 50%. and how do you do that?|look, at a certain point in life, what you do is you say, "im one in 32. in other words, ive won one out of 32 states," and you do what marco|did, which was great, and you do what rand paul did, and you do what a lot of them did, and you get out.|and shes going through a very hard time. and she has been so supportive and so like just incredible of what were all what were|trying to do. not me. im a messenger. what were trying to do make america great again and bring it back and stop letting the world take|advantage of us both militarily and we dont win anymore.|we dont win anymore. we dont win with trade. we dont win with the military.|we pay for everybody elses military.|we dont know what were doing.|and she saw it and she was here early. and she knows that were going to take care of our people, and its going to be america first. its|got to be america first. we have no choice. we have no choice.|and shes with a friend of hers whos very well-known, chelsea cooley, who is a tremendous, tremendous woman and just an amazing person. also a|great singer but i wont even mention that because chelsea would be the last to want to have people know that. chelsea is such a great friend of|melissa young and melissa young i just want to bring her and chelsea onto the stage and maybe melissa would like to say something and chelsea. but|this is just an unbelievable woman.|so could i ask melissa to come up on stage please?|and by the way, if you want, you could put your name up and you say "i want to run" and you go to the convention and you run.|but it would be nice to see because ill tell you what, he takes my votes away much more than he does cruz. and i dont like it. i|dont think its right. i dont think its appropriate.|but you know what? if we have to live with him, we still beat him easily. okay, folks? i mean, okay?|but kasich voted for nafta. nafta was a disaster for wisconsin and it was a disaster for our country.|ted cruz wants tpp and it is going to make nafta look like peanuts. what theyre doing to us with those documents, and cruz is the one that insisted|that we cant talk about money manipulation, which is devaluation of currencies in the agreement. he wouldnt let them do it. hes the one|that fought currency devaluation. thats the single biggest tool that other countries have for taking our business, taking our money, and taking our|jobs. and we cant let this go on any longer.|now, theyre controlled by their pacs. theyre controlled by the people that put up their campaign contributions. theyre controlled, you|know, with the lobbyists in washington. they have signs on their forehead. its like stamped into their forehead "i take care of cruz."|theyre specialists. "i take care of kasich." "i take care of hillary."|oh, hillary. ayeyeye. "take care of hillary."|so we cant let it happen anymore. we cant let it happen anymore.|its time you know obama used to say, "time for change"? ill say its time for change but real change this time not that change. real|change.|obama yesterday president obama yesterday for the first time he started having reservations about the iran deal. i could have told him that six|months ago, nine months ago, long before it was signed. the ink isnt even dry and now hes finally starting to understand it was a big|beautiful mistake and its only going to get worse.|and by the way, iran is getting worse. they were supposed to come into the community. remember? what a bunch of babies. are we babies? are we babies?|hello over there.|they were supposed to come into the community and they were supposed to, you know, get involved.|now, you see they just ordered 118 airbus jets. those are the big jets. 100. they didnt order boeing.|the reason one of the reasons is we restrict them from spending. so we give them $150 billion and theyre not even allowed to give us money by|investing, by buying our products. okay? how crazy are we? how much longer is it going to last? when are we going to get smart? when are we going to|stop?|we as a country are being ripped off. we are being ripped off by virtually every single country in the world. okay? whether its militarily or|trade.|we dont win anymore. we cant win with the military. we cant beat isis.|can you imagine gen. macarthur or gen. george patton? they say get rid of isis. what do you think?|its so sad to see whats happening to our country and were going to turn it around and were going to change it. and were|going to make it rich again, and were going to make it strong again.|so, and so many different elements, and ive been talking about trade. i always talk about trade.|because when i announced on june 16th coming down the escalator with melania, it was like the academy awards. there were so many cameras; ive never|seen anything like it. so many cameras. and i took a deep breadth and i said, "lets go." because we have to do it.|you know, it takes guts. running for president, believe me, takes guts. it takes a lot of guts. believe me.|and even for the politicians they run at least theyre out on the line, and then you see the dishonesty. you see where i won louisiana and then i|find out that im not supposed to get as many delegates as the person that i beat. what kind of stuff is that?|and somebody said, "well, theres a rule and another rule." i dont care about rules, folks. i go out and i campaign. we win. we win. we get the|delegates. right?|but in the meantime, we have millions more votes than cruz. weve beaten him in most of the states. i mean, were just winning so much. and|were winning by almost 300 delegates.|so were doing great. and i think we close it out before the convention. i think we actually close it out before the convention.|and thats like a prizefighter. you know, they go into unfriendly territory, and the champ, he goes in. and they say, "what do you think? you may|have an unfriendly decision." he says, "no, when you knock them out, theres no unfriendly decision."|if we get the delegates, weve pulled out a knock-out. and thats the way its going to be, and i can see that happening because more and|more people are calling, they want to get on board.|frankly, when i looked at what happened a friend of mine, whos a great you know, one of my great friends, he lives right down not|very far from here. and he said, "with wisconsin, youre going win." i said, "well, what do you think? but im not seeing polls that are great.|im a little bit down. im down in some. im a little bit down." he says, "no, no, youre going to win. but you have to be there. you|have to come in and you have to talk to the people." like we did this afternoon at the hangar. and he said, "youre going to win. i mean, youre|going to win." hes a very smart guy, i want to tell you. great guy. but he said, "youve got to come in."|weve been making ive been making speeches, three today, four yesterday, three or four the other day. were here constantly.|youre going to get so sick of me. youre going to say, "oh, get him the hell out of here."|no, we are making so much progress and its been so inspiring to see the people. i mean, look at even you people. you dont sit down. if you|want, you can. oh, stay up. stand up. what the heck? hey, weve got plenty of time to sit down, right? weve got plenty of time.|but i do appreciate that. thats a sign of affection, and its a sign of respect, and i really do appreciate it. thats really nice.|so we have to bring our country back and so many different things.|with china, we have a trade deficit of $500 billion a year.|with mexico, we will build a wall. we will have strong borders. strong borders. believe me. we have a trade deficit of $58 billion a year. the|walls going to cost $10 billion to build. and people, the politicians are saying, "how can you possibly get them to pay?"|let me tell you something, folks. we have some good business people in this audience.|when you have a $58 billion deficit, and you have a $10 billion wall, thats real easy. and thats on a yearly basis the $58 billion. its|really easy.|and they dont understand it. they said, "how are you going to get them to pay?"|i said, "its so easy." and you understand it. just rely on me. okay? rely. so easy. thats so easy. and were going to have a strong|border.|you know, two days ago i was greatly honored because the border patrol, the folks that do a great job, and theyre told to stand back but they|dont want to stand back. they want to do their job properly. theyre proud people. theyre incredible people. frankly, before the wall goes|up, we might not even need the wall, but were building it anyway. okay? were building it. believe me.|but the border patrol people are unbelievable people, and its 15,500 people gave me an endorsement two days ago. and i didnt ask for it. i|didnt know.|first time, first time theyve ever done it. right? first time, theyve ever done it and they gave me an endorsement. and its so important.|now, sheriff joe from arizona. you know, i won arizona very big, and sheriff joe was with me and it was incredible and we love it.|look, we have to have strong borders. we cant let the syrians come in that we have no idea who they are, where theyre coming from. we|dont know if theyre syrians.|this could be the all-time great trojan horse. who knows?|i have as big a heart as anybody. we want to help them. we want to build safe zones in syria.|i want to get the gulf states to pay for it. the gulf states have nothing but money. we dont have money. we will run it. we will do a good job.|well get it done but let somebody else pay for it for a change. we cant do it.|i keep getting these requests. you know, al green the great al green wrote "the snake". how many people have heard "the snake"? how many|people? oh, do you want to hear "the snake"? do you want to hear it? i mean, people love it and i love it because it says whats going to happen to|us if were not careful.|and this really pertains to allowing people into our country that we know are going were going to have problems. were going to have huge|problems. allowing people in from areas of the world we dont know where they come from. we dont know where their documents are. they say they|dont have documents. they have no papers. no nothing. we let them in. how stupid can we be?|so this is called "the snake" and i think its pretty good. all right? are you ready for this? a couple of you have heard it but some of you|havent.|"on her way to work one morning, down the path along the lake, a tender-hearted woman saw a poor half-frozen snake. his pretty colored skin had been all|frosted with the dew. oh well, she cried, ill take you in, and ill take care of you. take me in, oh tender woman.|take me in for heavens sake. take me in, oh tender woman, cried the broken snake. she wrapped him up all cozy in a curvature of silk and then|laid him by the fireside with some honey and some milk. now she hurried home from work that night. as soon as she arrived, she found that pretty snake|shed taken in had been revived. take me in, oh tender woman. take me in for heavens sake. take me in, oh tender woman, sighed the|broken snake. now she clutched him to her bosom. youre so beautiful, she cried. but if i hadnt brought you in by now,|heavens sake you might have died. now she stroke his pretty skin and then she kissed him and held him tight. but instead of saying thank you,|that snake gave her a vicious bite. take me in, oh tender woman. take me in for heavens sake. take me in, oh tender woman, sighed the|very, very healthy snake. i saved you, cried the woman, and you bit me. heavens why? you know your bite is poisonous and now im|going to die. oh shut up, silly woman, said the reptile with a grin. you knew damn well i was a snake before you took me in."|right?|thats whats happening to our country, folks. thats whats happening to our country and we cant let it happen. we have to be|smart. we have to be vigilant. we have to be strong. and if were not, were not going to have a country.|and we need borders and were going to have borders.|and we need great trade deals and were going to make great trade deals.|and we cant let mexico and i have great respect for mexico and i respect their leaders but we cant let mexico and china and any country you|want to name steal our business, steal our jobs.|when you look at whats happening in wisconsin and you see it the reason i beat your governor and i beat him badly was i just read off|the statistics. i just read all i did, i stood up and i read statistics. youre losing jobs its very average. its very average.|our country is less than average. okay? our country is doing so badly. and its just one of those things and we have to smarten up and we have to|get really tough. we have to get so, so, so vigilant and not be so politically correct. we have to do whats right for our country.|when the great ford motor company great company when they build a $2.5 billion plant in mexico, when nabisco moves its massive plant to|mexico from chicago, we cant let it happen.|when carrier air conditioners, as you know, they just announced theyre moving to mexico.|pfizer is moving to ireland.|but let me just tell you. so, i watched the politicians and they have no business instincts. but more importantly, theyre taken care of.|you know, a lot of friends come up to me and they say, "donald, let me ask you a question. these politicians are they really that dumb?" i said,|"no, theyre not actually that dumb. some are. but theyre not actually that dumb. theyre all taken care of by the special interests. and|when you want something done, you see certain people in washington."|hey, who is better than me? i mean, take a look at me. i was before june 16th, i was a part of the establishment and they will do not whats right|for you but they will do whats right for the company they represent or the country they represent and the united states continues to get ripped|off, ripped off, ripped off.|and a lot of times, ill say, "how can a deal be so stupidly made? these people are so stupid." theyre not stupid. theyre doing it for|themselves. theyre doing it because they want campaign contributions. theyre doing it because they want money put in their pacs. they are|totally controlled by the money. believe me. they are totally controlled by the money, and thats not good for our country. okay? thats not|good because terrible things are happening and were getting weaker and weaker.|hundreds of thousands and even millions of jobs are being taken out.|you look at the jobs we have. even in wisconsin, i mean, you see the jobs, the manufacturing, its all so down and so gloomy and throughout the|united states. and its a disaster whats going on in our country. were not going to have jobs left.|and they do it with manipulation of currency. and they do it with guile. they do it with so many different elements that our people dont even know|whats happening.|our politicians in most cases dont even know whats happening. and when they do know whats happening and they let it happen, its even|worse.|so im not taking money from anybody. im self-funding my campaign.|and were going to get it. were going to get it.|now, i look at this u.s. manufacturing i mean, just look at this. look at these charts. i mean, you can see them this is where were going.|you know thats not good. right? this is where were going.|there was one that i just saw. just got this. its like incredible.|look at this. this is u.s. manufacturing jobs rapidly decline since year 2000. look at that chart. another couple of years, there wont be any jobs.|and the jobs we have now are bad jobs. these are bad jobs. these arent good jobs. and everybody admits that. even the other side says, "we agree.|theyre bad jobs."|and the number that they talk about when they say 5% unemployment its a fictitious number. when you stop looking for a job, youre|considered statistically employed.|it was a number that was made up years ago probably by president but certainly by politicians to make them look good, to make them look really good like|the economy.|the economy is not good. the economy is bad.|were sitting on a bubble. the banks have money. they give it to you for nothing if youre rich. if youre not rich, thats when you|need the money, they dont loan it to you. so the people cant do jobs.|probably here you have some great companies, some really good smaller companies, you cant get the banks to give you money. the banks are controlled|by the regulators. they system that this country is run under is out of control.|and were going to change it. were going to bring back the jobs. were going to bring back our companies.|and you know ive had such a response. and the reason ive had response is because of that and then i look at the ads today.|im in hotel and i look at the ads and cruz makes up these ads. "were going to bring back jobs" hes using my same language.|heres the problem. they dont know where to begin. they dont know where to begin.|and if they did, lyin ted, lyin, he comes up. did you ever see a guy like this? just look what he did with ben carson.|ben carson, who endorsed me by the way, is a great guy, and lyin ted, remember in iowa, he said "ben has left the race. hes left the race."|this was on election day. its not like two days before or the day after. "during the election, he left the race." okay? and people believed him and|thousands of votes were cast not for ben but for ted cruz. its pure deception. its lying.|and then there were many other things. and actually during one of the debates, marco rubio looked over and he said, "youre a liar." and i said,|"you know, i never heard a politician call another politician liar so we can do it." so we now call him lyin ted lyin. its crazy.|its crazy.|i mean, what he does and what he says is just terrible. and you know, ive met a lot tougher people but ive never met any human that lied as|much as him.|and he comes in and you noticed the tremendous evangelical support i have? i have jerry falwell jr. from liberty university. i have all of these people.|i have such incredible support.|and the evangelicals he thought he was going to get the evangelicals but they dont like liars and they see he lies so much.|do you ever see him he walks up and he walks in with the bible, held high. right? held high and then he starts to lie.|boy, he is bad.|so anyways, i dont think that youre going to fall for that. i really dont think that anybody is going to fall he doesnt talk.|he debates i said, "ted, take it easy. just talk. talk. talk."|but were doing really well. the whole thing is just working out. and i loved being here. you know, ive been here for a long time. ive|been here for a long time. im going here were going to stay tomorrow. were going to have some, i think im doing fox and|friends tomorrow morning. im doing some shows tomorrow. were going to do some shows and were going to be around and were going to|make sure we want to bring this home.|if we can you know, we have a movement going on, folks. and its a movement of intelligence, actually. its a movement of common sense.|thats all it is.|were not going to let carrier make air conditioners, fire all of its people, move to mexico, make the air conditioners then come in and take the|money out of the country. its not going to happen anymore.|and im a free trader. and they say, "hes not a " remember jeb bush? "he is not a conservative." i said, "what?" i am a conservative. but|you know what? i believe in free trade.|but when you have free trade, you need smart people running your side of the free trade.|if you dont have smart people or if you have people like ted cruz that are totally controlled by the people that give him the money and theyre|controlled by the establishment. i mean, look at the establishment.|this guy in his whole life didnt know what the word establishment meant. now you have all these people going because they said, "oh man, trump is|terrible. he doesnt want any of our money."|i had one friend that came into my office i dont think ive ever said this before. he came into my office. he wanted to give me millions|of dollars. i said, "i cant take your money. i dont want your money. im self-funding." he said, "no, no, no, youve got to be|kidding." he didnt even know. he thought i was kidding. he wanted to endorse me, wanted to support me. i said no, no, i dont want. anyway, he|was finally convinced that i didnt want his money and hes leaving. and i said, "by the way, what are you going to do now?" he said, "im|going to give it to another candidate." and i said, "why?"|theyre gamblers. they have to do it. its like almost a disease. they have to do it. its the craziest thing.|he loves me. he wants to give give me probably close to $10 million. right? i would have had the greatest super pac in the history if i would have taken|all the money.|and my whole life, you know, ive said this before, my whole life as a business person is this. right? its okay. nothing wrong with it. i take.|i keep taking. i take and take.|but now im going to take for the united states. were going to take. were not going to be the stupid people anymore. were not going|to be the stupid people anymore. we cant be. we cant be.|and with nato when they dont pay, you know, i said i was asked a question by wolf blitzer, a very fair question about nato.|now, you know, ive been a businessman. world class. i filed my business papers. they were phenomenal. everybody says great, great, great. i built a|great company. very little debt. tremendous cash flow. some of the greatest assets in the world.|and i tell you that only for one reason thats the thinking we need in washington. we need some of that thinking.|and wolf blitzer asked me a question on television. he said, "let me just ask you about nato." now, i havent been asked about nato a lot but i|understand nato and i understand common sense, and im like a smart person like many of the people in this room. hopefully all of the people in this|room.|but he asked me about nato. i said, "its obsolete." this was my first thing.|and you know what? im the first one.|guys that study nato and good people but they study nato and they say, "i dont believe it. what he just said, i never thought of it." they study it|because theyre so into it that they dont realize because it was really put there.|you had the soviet union and now you have russia, which is different but russia is powerful so we could sort of say thats a balance. so well|leave it.|but it doesnt really cover terrorism like its supposed to. doesnt have the right countries. i mean, many of the countries and there|arent that you associate with terrorism.|and so i said number one, its obsolete.|i said number two, to the best of my knowledge, the united states pay far too much proportionately and why are we always paying the bills to protect|other people?|and the press, which is so totally dishonest, the press goes headlines the next day "trump doesnt want nato, wants to disband nato".|and thats not what i said.|i said, youve got to pay your bills. and you know what? if you cant pay your bills, honestly, there should be theyve got to go|because we cant do it. you know, this isnt 68 years ago. this isnt when it was originally formed like many, many years ago, many decades|ago, and you have to re-do things.|but it is interesting. some of the smartest people have said "what trump said is genius. its obsolete. and you know what? its true."|theres a lot of people, a lot of countries being given a free ride. we cant have the free rides any more, folks.|thank you. well, we need somebody with that and its america first, folks. its america first.|so then, as you know, north korea is a big problem. north korea is a problem. a problem that could be solved easily by china but they dont want to|solve it because they want to tweak us. theyre building in the south china seas a massive military fort. you know whats going on. they|shouldnt be doing that.|and theyre taking our money and, you know, you talk about the imbalance of trade, you talk about the kind of money. how about this? we owe china|$1.7 trillion.|now, they take our money. they take our jobs im not angry at china. im angry at our people and our leaders for letting it happen.|im not angry with china. if you can get away with it, you do it.|but they take our jobs, they take our money, they take our money. they take everything.|we owe them $1.7 trillion. thats sort of like a magic act. doesnt it? amazing.|japan, they send cars by the millions. they come off those boats. los angeles i was there at the docks. i looked at the biggest boats youve|ever seen. biggest, greatest ships youve ever seen. the cars are pouring off the ships. we owe them $1.5 trillion.|its like, well, how does this all happen? okay? how does it happen?|heres the story, folks.|were going to change our thinking. were going to be the smart people again. were going to be so smart. were going to be so sharp.|so a lot of people dont know we protect japan. do you know that? does anybody know? you might know we protect japan. we protect germany. we|protect south korea.|when you want a television set, who do you get it from? south korea. samsung. lg. you get it from south korea.|so we protect all and big ships they make. these are monster, monster economies. we protect them.|they dont pay what they should be paying for not having to have this massive military apparatus that we supply.|and you know what? we get that because we have people that dont know what theyre doing in washington for many years. i mean, im not even|blaming it obamas the worst. hes the worst. the worst.|i mean, when he just realizes, i mean he just realized that the iran deal is a bad deal. it just took him realize i said, "oh, why|didnt you listen to me two years ago?" just two years ago if he would have listened can you imagine? did you ever see a deal take so long?|by the way, usually when a deal takes that long, its bad automatically. i can usually tell you that.|but anyway, so we protect japan. so it comes out i said, look, i would have to tell japan and im talking about other nations also because i have|great friends from japan, i have great friends from south korea. we have to go see them, go to talk to, have a meeting with them, "we love protecting|you." we dont want them to arm necessarily. but you know, at some point, how long are we going to do this?|so we have to see them and we have to say, "youve got to help us out."|you know, we have this massive, massive amount of money that we have to get rid of because were sitting on one of the worst bubbles youll ever|see. okay? believe me. weve got to straighten it out.|weve got to straighten out our trade deals. weve got to straighten out our military deals. were taking care of all these countries.|so we go to japan. and heres what the i was telling the people and they said "wow, that sounds good." weve got to take youve got|to take care of us.|now, theyll probably say initially "no". and then we leave and then theyre going to say, "yes."|but if they dont say yes, you always have to be prepared to make a great deal to walk. you have to be |the problem with the iran deal was that secretary kerry was like an amateur. call him amateur night. he refused to walk. they were laughing at him in|the streets of iran. they were claiming the deal was the greatest deal ever made before it was even made. they were saying "this deal is unbelievable."|they were laughing at the secretary of state of this country. they were laughing at the united states saying that this deal is great. and they were|dancing. remember? burning the flag dancing?|when they start dancing about a deal that im making, when they start burning the american flag, im out of there. bye bye. good luck.|and he just kept going back.|and i kept waiting. i wanted to call him. i wanted to call him. i wanted to say, "walk." because every single thing hed say, "we would like|to get this." "no!" "oh, okay. youve got it. we would like to get that." "no!"|you know, the persians are great negotiators. its an unbelievable deal.|but just yesterday, obama just yesterday he brought it up that hes very unhappy.|i mean, think of it. think of it. $150 billion. its the worst deal. we didnt get our prisoners back. we should have had the prisoners back|before we started negotiating. increase the sanctions. dont sit at the table. say "you give our prisoners back or were not starting." you|leave. theyll say "no". you leave. and what happens? you double up the sanctions. within 24 hours, they call you and they say, "youve got your|prisoners." that could have been years ago. right?|so we have people that dont know what theyre doing.|heres the story. you need trump. you do. you need trump. you bet you do. i mean, youve got to have trump.|i mean, its sort of interesting because i see when i turn on the television, i see these ads about myself by crooked people.|i see these ads and theyre mostly wrong. a little bit sometimes are right but theyre all negative. you know. and im looking, im|watching this on television ad after ad.|in florida, they spent $38 million on negative ads and i won it in a landslide does anybody read? does anybody watch television? you know, its|not much for the advertising community when you think they spent $38 million a record number in florida.|they spent thousands and thousands of ads nationwide listen to this one 55,000 negative ads on me. most of them was made up.|ill give you one good example.|we have the club for growth, which is forget them. these are among the dumbest people that youll ever meet.|they come to my office. they want me to give them $1 million.|a friend asked me, "please see them." i said, "who are they?" "theyre club for growth." whatever that means.|so they come to my office. they asked me for $1 million. i say, "no, thank you." and thats it.|then they write me a letter, which i posted, asking me for $1 million. i said very nicely im not a bad person i said nicely "no, thank|you." i mean, you can be rich but you dont have to be stupid. okay? why am i going to give them $1 million?|so, what happens is all of a sudden i see their name all over the place "club for growth" and they talk about, you know, different things |ridiculous things. i mean, theyre the worst ads.|and by the way, once was a fraudulent ad because they said, "if cruz and kasich got together and you added the delegates" and they showed the|delegates. right? and you add them up and im over here with a lot. and they said and they add them up and they show a graph that goes|much higher than mine and its much lower than mine.|theyre a fraud. and what we did is we told them to stop that ad and that was a week ago. and we tweeted about it. and everybodys talking about|it. and i see it last night again.|theyre crooked. so heres what they do. its like a form of extortion, i guess. right? when you think of it. they come to your office. they|ask for $1 million. you dont give them $1 million. they go out. they do negative ads.|these are the people you know, if these people about trump they call it like "no trump". what do they call that thing? they call it "never|trump". oh, you need trump so badly though.|i was saying if they would work, if they would have worked so hard, so diligently against president barack hussein obama, they would have beaten him.|they would have had great budgets. they would have had everything they wanted.|but with him i always say, "obama is the worst negotiator ive ever seen." you look at the no, except with the republicans. he gets|everything he wants.|i mean, you look at the omnibus budget from three months he got everything he wanted fund obamacare, bring people into the country that|shouldnt be here. he got everything he wanted.|so he is the worst negotiator worldwide.|we have sergeant bergdahl. right? we get bergdahl, a traitor. no, no, think of it. this is a negotiation. we get bergdahl. and they get |what do they get? five of their most coveted killers that have been in jail for eight years in gitmo, which were not closing down by the way. okay?|were going to run it.|so we get bergdahl, a traitor, who five or six probably six people were killed going out to try and get him back. he left. hes a|traitor.|so we get bergdahl, and thats what we get. and they get five people that are right now back on the battlefield or soon to be back on the|battlefield trying to kill everybody in sight, including us. okay?|weve got to stop it. weve got to stop it.|so with japan, i said they got to maybe weve got to walk. and the next day the headlines "trump doesnt want to defend japan",|"trump wants japan to get their nukes".|okay, heres the story, folks. you have japan. japan is very concerned with north korea.|you know, number one, i like the way it is now but i want them to pay a lot more money. they probably will. but if they dont, its not so bad|if they are at heads. maybe were not supposed to get into that fight. thats a bad fight. maybe were not supposed to. okay? okay?|same thing with south korea. i mean, every time he raises his head and he starts talking, every single time he raises his head, our ships start floating|over, our planes start going over. we do all sorts of exercise. what are we get out of this? we have 28,000 soldiers on the line.|so, we have to be taken care of.|now, im talking as a person financially. okay? im also talking militarily. but im talking financially.|we dont have a country that can do this anymore.|saudi arabia, until the oil went down and now theyre still making a fortune. but saudi arabia was making $1 billion a day. we protect saudi arabia.|if we werent there, saudi arabia wouldnt be there. if saudi arabia didnt have us for years protecting them, they would have been gone a|long time ago as saudi arabia. somebody else would have it, probably maybe iraq because he would have come back.|and by the way, speaking of that, you know, i was against going into iraq. everyone says, "oh, trump is going to be very tough." i was against going|into iraq from the very beginning, from the very beginning.|and im going to build our military bigger, stronger than ever before. but you know what? hopefully, we never have to use it. nobodys going to|tell us what to do though. we have to shape it up because our military is totally depleted.|but if our politicians would have gone to the beach for the last number of years, many years, we would be much stronger in a sense. wed be much|stronger because the middle east is a disaster. you see the great migration. its a catastrophe.|you see whats going on in germany. its a total mess. what she has done.|can you imagine? she was person of the year.|i was supposed to be person of the year on time magazine. she beat me out and she destroyed germany. can you believe this?|thats not good. i wonder if time magazine had that one to do over again what theyd say. i think well be in much better shape. well,|theyve treated me nice. ive been on the cover a lot.|and the reason were on the cover a lot is because we have a movement the likes of which people have never seen.|so heres the story. heres the story.|you know, one of the great writers called me up and he said, "what youve done is incredible." i said, "no, no, i have to win." he said, "no, no, it|makes no difference. if you win, if you lose, it doesnt matter. what youve done is down in the history books. you will be cover for all time.|its incredible." i said, "no, sir. no, sir. i have to win. because if i dont win, to me, i will consider it a tremendous waste of time and|waste of money but a tremendous waste of time."|so heres the story. heres the story. were going to take care of our second amendment. its being chipped and chipped.|were going to get rid of common core. were going to bring education back locally.|were going to repeal and replace obamacare, which is a total catastrophe. youre going to have great health insurance.|were going to save your social security. were going to save your medicare. we are going to save it because we are going to make our country|rich again. were going to bring back our jobs. were not going to let our jobs go. and were going to be able to afford youve|been paying in it a long time and a lot of these guys want it to be knocked to hell. its not going to happen. okay? remember that. its not|going to happen.|were going to start winning again, folks. we dont win anymore. we dont win anymore. we dont win with our military. we cant beat|isis. were going to win. were going to knock the hell out of isis.|we dont win with our vets. our vets are being treated worse than illegal immigrants. our vets are being treated so unfairly. theyre our great|people.|and other people you know, vets have endorsed me virtually unanimously and a lot of the vets will come up to me and say, "you know, mr. trump, we|follow closely whats going on. youre the only person that ever mentions the vets." right?|and hillary clinton recently said about the vets that theyre being taken care of just fine. theyre not being take care of fine. theyre|not being taken care of. she said theyre being taken care of just fine.|i know the vets. nobodys spent more time with the vets that are running. and were going to take care of our vets. okay?|we are going to tear up and make great and very lucrative and everybody is going to be happy, including the other side, trade deals.|i have the greatest people in the world for dealing.|we use political hacks that dont know what theyre doing. theyre dealing against the smartest people in china, the smartest people in|japan, the smartest people from all over the world, and our negotiators are political hacks and were not using them anymore.|were using the greatest business people in the world and we have them in this country and theyre endorsing me, and i know the best ones from|the not so great ones. and were going to have great, great trade deals.|were going to have a strong border. were going to have a real border. were going to have a wall. mexico is paying for it. were going|to have a wall.|and were going to stop bad, bad things from happening in this country. because if you look at whats going on and you look at the tremendous|crime and you look at the drugs that are pouring across the border, its the drugs are pouring like water. theyre pouring across.|you know when i won new hampshire is a special place to me because they were the first victory i had. and i won new hampshire, and i wasnt|expected to win it; jeb was expected to win it. and i won it in landslide.|and id go around and id see the people of new hampshire, and they tell me, "mr. trump, our biggest problem is heroin." i said, "heroin?" it|doesnt make sense. you know, you look at the beautiful trees or the woods or the roadways and the lakes. i said, "heroin?" it just doesnt|work. its incongruous. right? it doesnt work. but it was heroin. and i said, "if i get in, were going to stop that problem." then i said,|"where does it come from?" they said, "it comes from the southern border. they come right in."|now, new hampshire rated it their number one problem. they have a tremendous problem. but many other communities, including you, but many other|communities have this problem. were going to stop it cold, folks. were going to stop it cold.|and the bottom line is this. look, we have a big, big day. and youre going to look back on this evening and youre going to say that was one of|the great evenings of your life because we love the country. we love the country.|i love you too. thank you.|really do. i love the people. i love the people.|you know, they say donald trump my base is so strong. they say, "donald trump can do almost anything." in fact, one person today said "anything".|and they interviewed a woman, i saw her last night on television sitting in a hotel room, which was not the most beautiful room ive ever been. it|was very clean, and i only want clean. i dont care about the room. i want clean.|but they were sitting there and they said to a woman a wonderful woman, probably 55 years old, and her friends were there. and they said, "what|would it take to get you to vote for somebody other than donald trump?" she said, "dont play that game. theres nothing he can do that would|get me to vote against him." and i wanted to go up and i wanted to hug that television set.|i wanted to i wish i could find out who she is. but we have so many people like that. were all like that. i mean, a big chunk of the country|is like that because were tired of stupidity. were tired of seeing whats happening to our great country.|so, heres the deal. youre going to go home and youre going to remember this.|but much more importantly, tomorrow, you get everybody you can and i promise you. youre going to be so proud of your country. youre going to|go out and vote. youre going to be so proud of your president. but forget that. youre going to be so proud of this country again.|and youre going to remember the evening because were going to start winning again. were going to win on trade. were going to win|with our military. were going to knock out the isis.|were going to win. we are going to win with the military. were going to knock out isis. were going to knock them out.|were going to win for our vets because our vets have been treated too badly. its not going to happen anymore.|were going to win at the border. were going to win with education.|were going to win with our second amendment. so many people talk to me about the second amendment.|were going to win at every single element of what were doing. and every single thing were going to win, win, win.|and youre going to say, "that was the single greatest vote that i have ever cast", and youre going to look back and youre going to be|proud of yourselves and youre going to be proud of your country again.|so thank you very much everybody. this is a great, great honor. thank you!|get out and vote! i love you all! thank you! thank you very much! thank you!|thank you. i feel so badly. outside we have 5,000 people and they cant get in. i feel badly. i want to apologize. we have speakers outside. but i|want to apologize. who would have thought we have over 5,000 people cannot get in.|its an honor to be here. its an honor to be with you. and very important. you know, were doing really well and millions of votes ahead|of cruz. millions.|you know, i get a kick. i call him lyin ted. lyin ted cruz. he stands up and i win as you know, youve seen it. i have been winning|all of the evangelical vote. but he stands up bible high, puts it down and then he lies. you know, its amazing to watch it.|but he said, "yeah, im the only one who can beat donald trump. ive done it time after time."|and i said, "wait a minute. ive won like most of the states."|i think he had like 5 or 6 and i had 20 or 22. right?|and i said i cant believe it. and i have millions of votes more.|he says, "im the only one that can out-vote him." and im saying but i have like millions of votes more.|ill tell you something so important. there is something happening. its like a movement. its incredible. its a movement. and|were part of the movement.|not me. im a messenger to be honest. im a messenger.|and this is something thats so special and so amazing and its on the cover of time magazine. its on the cover of every newspaper.|its something that has maybe never happened and theyre saying its phenomenon.|sometimes they say im a phenomenon. im not. the message is what we want.|we want jobs. we want trade deals that are smart deals not stupid deals.|and you know, wisconsin. i wrote down some notes and its like devastating.|so walker came out today. i wrote down notes about wisconsin.|look, he certainly cant endorse me after what i did to him in the race. right?|but look at this. by the summer of 2015, wisconsin was facing a $2.2 billion two-year budget deficit. thats terrible.|by the way, these are out of books. like this isnt trump. this is out of books.|total state debt is $45 billion. now, maybe somebody is going to tell me thats wrong but again these are $45 billion. very high. one of the|higher ones.|20,000 fewer people in the labor force in wisconsin than seven years ago even though population has grown by 100,000. so your population is higher.|now, i wouldnt have done this but he endorsed cruz. what am i going to do? am i going to say hes doing a great job? hes not doing a great|you know, he comes in with his big motorcycle jacket and big harley. i love harleys. right? but the motorcycle guys like trump. they really like trump.|and he doesnt look like a motorcycle guy to me. im sorry. im sorry.|unemployment rate well, they say that cant be possible. unemployment they have down 20%. that cant be possible. what? is it|20%? effective or regular? effective unemployment rate 20%. hey, this is out of the big book.|800,000 food stamp recipients.|middle class hit very, very hard due to loss of manufacturing jobs. these are the stats. right? you know about this, right?|it goes on and on.|wisconsin has lost 15,000 net jobs to mexico since nafta.|now, just so you understand, kasich is running also. we forget about him. he voted for nafta.|both of them want tpp. tpp trans-pacific partnership. both of them want trans-pacific. that will make nafta look like a baby, and wisconsin will|be hit so hard.|but the motorcycle guys love trump.|i love the disabled veterans and the veterans. were going to take care of our veterans. you know that, right? were going to take care of our|veterans.|what is it about trump that they like?|im serious. we went to hilton head. we went to different places, and there were hundreds, hundreds of bikers out there. beautiful bikes. lots of|harleys, right? lots of harleys. made in america. but beautiful, beautiful bikes |i dont know what it is but they like me. i feel good with them. i feel safe. i got out took a picture. secret service went crazy.|i said, "these are great people. dont worry about it."|but listen, i appreciate it, fellas, i appreciate it.|were going to keep you free. im going to keep you free.|because were getting rid of isis.|were going to have good borders. were going to have borders again. were going to have borders again.|so here we have something thats pretty interesting i love you too.|you lost 70,000 jobs to china. 70,000 jobs.|100,000 illegal immigrants living in wisconsin. taxpayers are paying tens of millions of dollars.|look, i dont know. i dont know.|so what happened with walker and i just will finish off with this hes a nice man. he came up to my office like about a year ago before i did|you know, ive been a politician for about eight months, right? i never thought id be a politician. the last thing on my mind i want to|be was a politician.|but i built a great company. i filed papers. the company is incredible. very little debt, tremendous cash flow, some of the great assets in the world.|and i say that not in a bragging way. i say that because thats the kind of thinking we need, folks.|we cant have china ripping us off and mexico and japan and vietnam. we cant have it. we cant have it. and they are ripping us like|theyve never ripped anybody before.|weve rebuilt china. i mean, were rebuilding mexico.|you look the other day you saw carrier moving down. carrier air conditioning. i buy those air conditioners a lot of them. im not buying any|more of them. but carrier air conditioning moving to mexico. ford moving to mexico.|nabsico home of the formerly wonderful oreo which we dont eat anymore. right? we dont eat it. we dont eat it. number one, its|a good its called an enforced diet.|but you know what? look, were losing our jobs. look at your jobs.|when i see that statistic, i mean youre losing your jobs.|when i went after your governor when he decided to run and i said, "you know, im going to be nice to him. hes a nice guy." the guy came up to|my office. he handed me a plaque because i supported him. what do i know? i supported him. i gave $50,000 or $100,000. thats a lot of money for a|guy youve never met before. right? thats pretty good.|but i like the fact that he was fighting, fighting, he was always fighting.|you know, to a certain extent, id rather see somebody able to make a deal without having to go through all of that mess.|but he was fighting and i gave him a lot of money and he came up, you know, a year ago or so and he gave me a plaque. beautiful picture of something. i|havent i never really got to read it to be honest. and i put it aside. that was it |because if we win wisconsin, its going to be like over, pretty much over. because were going to do great.|emerson poll came out. i think i have 67%, 68% in new york compared to like 10% or whatever, and you have cruz talk about new york values, new|yorkers are no good.|i watched new yorkers rebuild the world trade center. i watched new yorkers dying.|believe me, new yorkers are good. new yorkers are very good. but cruz said theyre no good.|so anyways, so i think were going to do great in new york.|were going to do great in new jersey. chris christie endorsed me. well do great in new jersey. good guy.|ben carson endorsed me. sarah palin endorsed me. sheriff joe from arizona. we love sheriff joe.|and you know, with the evangelicals, ive had so many ministers. ive had so many pastors endorse me. and jerry falwell, jr. endorsed me. it was|incredible and weve done so well with the evangelicals. i mean, christians, evangelicals, weve done so well.|in fact, in south carolina, when we went to south carolina, that was going to be cruzs territory. he was going take it, except we won it in a|landslide.|you know that. you saw it. he was there. this guy follows me around, ill tell you.|but you were there. remember, he was going to win that in a landslide. and then i started speaking. i started talking to people, and i started saying|the good and the bad and the ugly.|and we won in a landslide and we won the evangelicals. ive won just about i think almost every place ive won with evangelicals.|and its been an amazing time.|so now im here to talk to the people of wisconsin. i have friends in wisconsin. ive been here before. its an incredible place but|its a place that has problems.|but you have a governor that has you convinced that it doesnt have a problem.|i remember when he was on the campaign trail, i was so nice to him. i said, "how can i hit him? im not going to hit him. im not going to hit|him."|and i was so nice. i hit jeb instead, right? right?|and i hit rand, rand, old rand.|and i hit a lot of people and they all went down.|wouldnt it be nice to have a president that could just with his mouth make things happen that are positive? you know.|but its not with the mouth. its really with the mouth, the heart, and the brain. remember the brain.|i have a lot of friends. theyre good with the mouth but theyre not good with the brain. it all doesnt work. okay?|you know, we had an interesting thing today. a poll came out a nationwide poll. a great poll. it was trump 48%. it was an nbc poll. trump 48%.|cruz was second in the 20s, mid-20s something. and kasich was way down.|so what happened is they showed the poll. it was an nbc poll. they call it an nbc monkey poll. and it was on the today show, and it was on morning joe.|morning joe held it up and he said, "wow, those are great numbers."|48% is pretty good. you have three people. you know. i dont get enough credit for that.|ive been at 42%, 44%, 45%, and ive had like seven people. how do you get 45% when you have seven people? nobody says that. they say, "he|hasnt cracked 50%." how do you crack 50% when you have all these people running?|so im at 48%. poll was good way, way ahead of anybody else nationwide. and they showed hillary clinton hers is very close.|shes got a little problem. could happen. got a bigger problem with the emails than she has with bernie to be honest with you. she should have. her|bigger problem should be with emails. well find out how honest our country is, right?|but shes got a sort of close race. and they put her poll up and it was put up there. you know, big letters.|and then they said, "and donald trump is winning." that was it. they didnt put numbers up. they didnt say im doing great. in fact, they|said, "donald trump is winning," and they put some a little slightly negative statistic in it was like wait a minute. they put her numbers|up and they didnt put my numbers up.|folks, its so unfair. the press is so dishonest. its unbelievable. that was chuck todd. that was chuck todd this morning on the today show.|they put hillarys numbers. and im winning by a lot and they said, "donald trump is winning. you know, lets go to a new subject, okay?"|now, i guarantee you one thing. if i was losing or doing poorly, itll still be up. itll be up all morning because they dont like|whats happening. im self-funding my campaign. im putting up my own money. they dont like it.|ted cruz and kasich are getting money from the banking industries, the energy industries. theyre getting money from the pharmaceutical companies.|theyre getting money from everybody.|folks, you cant straighten out this mess were in a mess if you cant do what you have to do.|when millions of dollars are given to cruz and kasich and millions from different industries, youre not going to be able to say, "well, were|going to do and go against the banking industry to do whats right for the people" if the banking industry gave you millions of dollars. now,|thats true with hillary also. now, shes gotten millions of dollars.|but im the only one self-funding my campaign. im in for a lot of money. i in a lot of money.|what is beautiful is when i was running against jeb in new hampshire. i was in for like $2 million. jeb was in for like $48 million. i was in first and|he was close to last.|i said, "who do you want as your president?"|by the way, did jeb endorse anybody yet? because i havent heard. because i think jeb probably endorsed huh? did he endorse? it just shows you|how important it is. nobody even knows. i dont even know.|hell probably hell endorse just so you know. look, when youre in war, youve got to fight and you fight hard.|when i fight, i win. youre going to win. you know that. youre going to win.|but you know, you do pretty serious damage, right? because you want to win and you want to win fast and a lot of people dont love you after you|finish.|but i just love you. i dont care about that.|in fact, theyre asking cruz, you know, at the debate which by the way they said i won every single debate. now i heard the other night, "i want to|debate trump". ive debated him 11 or 12 times. every single online poll has me winning the debates. hes an okay debater but hes a bad|talker. you know, everythings so dramatic.|and he waits. phony. and he waits. you know, you ever see he goes sentence after sentence and then he stops for like three, four seconds. and then he|goes again. it looks like were in the theater. were not in the theater. were in the real world.|so what happens thank you.|by the way, the sheriff is here and hes a great guy and his people are fantastic. thank you, sheriff. thank you.|i mean, the only thing i feel so guilty about all the people outside. feel so guilty. were going to come back. were going to come back, come|back to this area. you guys cannot come. okay? all of the ladies can come but the guys cant.|but all of the people outside, were going to take a bigger place because i feel slightly guilty.|but look, we have a very serious mess on our hands. we have a very serious situation.|we have a country thats not protected.|we have a country thats sitting on a big fat bubble thats going to explode. in a certain way, id say let it do now, dont do it after|i get in. three days itll explode and theyll say its trumps fault. okay?|ayeyeye, we are in a big fat ugly bubble. we have interest rates that are so low that if youre rich like me i can borrow money for any amount. if|youre a hardworking guy with a great farm or youre a hardworking developer or businessman you cant borrow money.|you can only borrow money really cheaply think of how bad it is you can borrow money for nothing practically if youre rich. but if|youre rich, you dont need the money so you dont have to borrow it.|but if youre a businessperson and you want to go to the bank for a loan, you cant get it.|the regulators are running the banks. dodd-frank is a disaster, by the way. its a disaster. its a disaster.|but the biggest disasters are regulations. our rules and regulations are horrible. were going to get rid of probably 85% of them. there are some we|live with. but weve got to go back.|so many people in this area have told me regulations regulatory climate is the worst theyve ever seen.|i have a friend, whos a farmer, and if a puddle forms, they consider it a lake for the purposes of environmental. its like a puddle and|theyd consider it a lake.|so we dont know what were doing. so heres whats happening. were going to make our country so great again. were going to|make our country so strong again.|our military is going to be so amazing. were never going to have to use it.|dont forget, i didnt want to go into iraq. all these guys think that im a tough guy so im going to be so quick with the trigger.|im not going to be quick.|i was the slowest with the trigger. i didnt want the trigger.|now, when obama left though, he shouldnt have left the way he did. he gave a certain date, and the enemy said, "it cant be possible. nobody|would be that stupid. nobody."|so i actually dont think itd hurt that much because i dont think the enemy would ever believe that anybody would be stupid enough to give|a date "were leaving on this date." and then he left. they said, "he was serious!" they pulled back. they pulled back. then you see what|happened. they pulled back then they went in with fury.|but how about the 50 soldiers. he sent a couple of months ago, a few months ago, he sent 50 of our finest and instead of just sending them quietly,|quietly sending them. what does he do? he sends them in and he makes a big press conference or announcement that "we are sending 50 soldiers in iraq,|syria" and these soldiers have a big target on their backs.|why cant we just keep our mouths shut? why cant we be unpredictable? unpredictable? right? why cant we be unpredictable?|why does he have to tell first of all, it doesnt even sound good when you say "50 soldiers" because it sounds like so small. people would|say, "is that good or bad?" i mean, that sounds small.|but then when you think about it, why do we have to say that?|these are extraordinary people. these are our finest. and theyre, you know, very dangerous missions. why would you tell people that were|sending them in? you just keep quiet and let them accomplish something.|they are right now who knows whats happened to them? but right now, they have a big target on their back.|people that weve let go of at gitmo have now killed americans. youve seen that. you saw that yesterday. that came out yesterday. we let people|go out of gitmo and they kill americans. okay. is anybody surprised at that though? would anybody be surprised?|and were keeping it open. now theyre spending, you know, hundreds of millions to run it. i guarantee you could run it a lot cheaper. youd|have a lot of money left over.|so were going to get efficiency in government. but were going to end obamacare. were going to replace it with something so much better|and so much less expensive.|were going to get rid of common core. were going to bring our education local.|we are going to preserve our second amendment. its under siege. its totally under siege.|and christianity is under siege. ill tell you, christianity is under siege.|you take a look. im with the ill tell you what. ive been with so many pastors lately and jerry falwell jr. was an example was|telling me that first of all, he told me something that "you remind me so much of my father." i thought his father was a great guy. what his|father did with liberty college and liberty university. and jerry to top it off has taken it to a whole new place.|but when jerry was so strong and so great.|but i was talking to i probably had 50 of the ministers and pastors, different folks came up to my office, and theyre really under tremendous|pressure because they dont want to have their tax exempt status taken away. this happened during the lyndon johnson presidency.|and i said, "why is it that you folks are pushed around so much?" christianity. these are the pastors. these are strong people. these are really strong|people. "why do you allow that? why arent you more forceful?"|and finally, somebody said, "well, we have to be a little careful of our tax exempt status."|i said when did that happen exactly? it was during the johnson.|well, were going to try to get rid of that. okay? because thats really terrible.|were going to try getting rid of and ive said that to a lot of evangelicals, a lot of great christians. were going to try to get|rid of it because it sort of means somebody walking down the street has more power than somebody of religion, of our religion, of christianity, somebody|thats an evangelical.|you take anybody they have more power because these people are powerless.|theyve actually taken their right of free speech away.|so i said were going to try to get rid of that and i think well be very, very successful.|you know, its interesting. i said how many christians are there? because you know, weve got men, weve got women. you cut it in half,|weve actually have a few more women. but we are far more christians than we have men or women. so in a way, its the most powerful lobbyist|the biggest group of people.|but theyre not allowed to talk because theyre petrified.|you saw what was happening with the irs and what was taking place with regard to certain groups.|so we are going to try and usually when i say try that means im going to get it done. that means im going to get it done.|but we are going to try very hard. we are going to get that brought back and i think its going to be very hard to counter it.|because if the christians, and if the whole evangelical christian sector gets together, nobody, nobody can beat |you know, when i made the statement about banning muslims on a temporary basis, i took such heat.|now people are saying, "you know, trump is sort of right about that." now theyre all going, "wow" because they see whats happening.|and i think if i would have said it about christians, i think i would have had less opposition. thats whats happened in this country.|thats whats happened in our country.|and we cant let it happen. were going to turn this country around and were going to be the smart people. were not going to be the|dummies anymore.|were not going to be where china made last year trade deficits $505 billion. japan over $100 billion. mexico $58 billion.|were going to build a wall and mexico is going to pay for the wall. okay?|recently, i was in florida and marco, whos a nice guy actually. you notice how nice they are after youve defeated them?|i like everybody i defeat.|but when i ran against marco, it was supposed to be well, he started it. right? just like cruz started the last deal. he started it.|but marco came after me very viciously. you know he wanted to be don rickles, right? and it didnt work.|but what happened is i won by 20 points almost 20 points and a lot of these issue we were talking about it was big issues. and frankly, i|wish i would have left about two days earlier. i wanted to stay in florida campaign. i wish i would have devoted two more days to ohio because i almost|won in ohio. i would have won in ohio but i didnt want to take a chance leaving my beautiful florida because i love florida and i wanted to win|that.|so if i would have left a couple of days early, i think i would have won florida the same.|but im not going to have anything happen in wisconsin. we have to win.|if we look, we have to put these politicians in their place, folks. its time.|and believe me, you know, cruz likes to pretend hes an outsider and in the meantime he gets all the establishment support, including your governor.|so believe me, believe me, theyre all establishment.|and frankly in a way its worse because cruz is establishment and yet hes got no relationship with the establishment.|he goes and he stands on the floor of the senate for a day and a half and he filibusters, and these senators look, i know. theyre tough|cookies. i have the best i have one of the great people sen. jeff sessions, whos great.|nobody better than jeff.|and you know, cruz thought he was going to have him and used him in his speech "sen. jeff sessions" and then he comes out and he endorses|but when you think of it, look, out of all of these senators, he has one supporter lee whos his friend. i mean, hes his friend.|and by the way took him plenty time to do it.|but you know, to stand there and to rant and rave for two days to show people you can filibuster, in the meantime, nothing was accomplished.|cruz has not accomplished one thing.|so hes an insider but its almost like the man on the street because he cant get anything done.|he dislikes people. he calls people like for instance he said horrible things about the speaker and you know about the speaker and he said about|separately mitch mcconnell.|i mean, he said some terrible things about how do you get things done when youre calling mitch mcconnell bad names. okay? lets just say|bad names.|so hes sort of got the worst of all elements. hes an insider totally but he can get nothing done. okay? he can get nothing done.|your new speaker how do you like paul ryan? how do you like him?|wow. i was told be nice to paul ryan because really?|well, hes the speaker. hes a nice guy. he called me the other day. he was very nice.|but im very surprised at this statement. wow. are you all republicans? are you mostly conservatives?|i always say im just a common sense conservative. and so, so important common sense.|and somebody told me today that somebody else i think, walker used my term.|you know, walker used i said, "make america great again." i said, "make america great again", and i copyrighted the term.|and then walker was making a speech many months ago when he first started and he was saying "make america great again" because he saw the response that|i got. the difference is he didnt get any response. so then no.|but we told him he cant do that. that was the first real problem i had with him |now, i said a common sense conservative and today i heard he used the term because the press was up and they interviewed me and they said he said|hes a common sense conservative.|well, i coined the phrase a few months ago. thats what i am. i am a conservative.|im very, very conservative on the military. im very conservative with our vets and on health care and on lots of things.|but and im actually very conservative on trade but a lot of people would say "hes not that conservative on trade because he doesnt|believe in free trade." well, actually i do believe in free trade. but its got to be good trade for us, right? its got to be smart trade.|it cant be where wisconsin is losing thousands and thousands of jobs where you folks cant get into china but china comes in here like its|swiss cheese. thats what happens.|you know, china does not obey the rules.|now, i get along great with china. i made a fortune dealing with china. i have two buildings because of china. big ones in new york and one in san|francisco bank of america that i have in partnership with a great company. and its because of china. i sell i have one of the big|leases with one of their big banks with the biggest bank in the world actually from china.|i sell millions of millions of condos to people from china. i like china.|im not angry china. i like them. i think their leaders are doing a great job for them.|but our leaders are doing a bad job for us.|same with mexico. i get along great. the hispanics. i love the hispanics. i love the hispanics. but their leaders are killing us on the border and|theyre killing us on trade.|and im not angry at them. im angry at our country and our leadership because its grossly incompetent and were going to change it|around and were going to get the best and were going to get the finest.|so whatever you can do to spread the world, ill be around. im going to green bay. i love their team, by the way. you talk about a great|franchise. no, i love it.|and you have a truly great quarterback. i dont know. hes probably endorsing somebody else but i dont care. hes still a great|quarterback.|tom bradys a friend of mine. he said you have a great quarterback. thats all right with me. when tom says hes a great quarterback|thats pretty good.|but you know, i really want to win wisconsin because if we could win wisconsin, were going to put all of this stupidity away.|were going to put these stupid, stupid people that allow and im talking about basically politicians, and in many cases, you know a lot of|times people will see deals that are done and i mean take a look at the iran deal. how bad is that i mean, just as a deal |but many times people will say deals that the country makes, and theyll say, "how can our politicians be so stupid?" theyre not stupid.|theyre being hit by the lobbyists and the special interests and they make a fortune. okay? they get tremendous campaign contributions. theyre|not stupid. theyre doing it for themselves.|so again, im not doing that. im doing for you. im working for you.|but just remember, theyre not so stupid like you think.|but when you look at the people funding cruzs campaign and kasichs campaign, and you look dont forget cruz said, "oh the|banks, the banks." you know, hes going to be robin hood. hes going to be this great guy.|and then in her personal financial disclosure form, he forgot to mention that he borrowed about a million dollars from the banks citibank and|goldman sachs. he borrowed a million dollars at an interest rate that everybody in this room would be proud to have a very low interest rate.|almost no interest. he forgot to announce it on his personal financial disclosure form. he just forgot. he said, "oh, i forgot. i forgot."|okay? so then he hits the banks. hes controlled by these people, folks. okay? i mean, what he did was absolutely wrong. but theyre controlled|by these people.|im controlled by you. im going to do the right thing for you. okay? so remember that.|22 veterans a day commit suicide. thats correct.|were going to take care of our veterans so much. look, let me tell you, they many of them kill themselves waiting for a doctor. they|cant even get to see the doctor. you know that. they end up killing themselves before they see the doctor.|22 a day and a lot of people dont even believe that number. they think its almost like an impossible number how can it be so bad? |and it actually could be even worse than that.|we are going to take care of them. from their standpoint, they wait, they wait, then they get bad service, then they wait some more six, seven,|eight days.|and sometimes theyll see the doctor and the doctor says, "i cant see you now. im going on vacation."|you see the corruptness.|i just left phoenix 21,000 people. sheriff joe was there. the job he did was incredible. incredible.|you know they had a little protest. right? that protest ended so quickly. he arrested three people; everyone else scattered.|you know, and you have that kind of a sheriff here. you have a tough cookie here. i can tell you. i just met him and i can tell you.|but you know i have a great policy plan and ive gotten a lot of credit for it and its on donaldjtrump.com. and with the veterans when|theyre waiting for exorbitant time even for a little time theyre going to go to the doctor. theyre going to go to local|doctors or local hospitals.|many of the hospitals are dying for business. you know that theyre dying. some of these hospitals are dying. theyre going to get immediate|treatment, immediate service, were going to pay the bills, and were going to save a fortune, and theyre going to get great service.|and everybody is in love with it. everybody loves it. and thats whats going to happen. so were going to take care of our veterans.|if we cant take care of our veterans, we cant take care of anyone. so were going to take care of our vets.|boy, do you look good though. you look good and tough. i wouldnt want to fight you.|do you think i can take you in a fight? i dont think so.|how about we do it right now? that would be great for television |go ahead.|let me tell you this. our veterans are taken worse care of than illegal immigrants who come in our country you dont even have to write it|down. were going to do things about it.|you know what youre saying? ive heard this so many times before with the daycare and everything else. we are going to take care of our vets.|by the ways, speaking of increase, cruz and kasich want to destroy your social security, folks, okay?|i want to bring money back into this country. i want to bring jobs into this country. i want to bring tremendous wealth into this country. i want to|take our wealth back from china, from mexico, from all of these countries that have our wealth. theyve taken them like were a bunch of babies.|and were going to save your social security and were going to save your medicare. they want to get rid of it. okay? remember that.|i want to use not too many executive orders folks. you know, because executive orders came about more recently. nobody ever heard of an executive order.|then all of a sudden obama, because he couldnt get anybody to agree with him and he start signing them like theyre butter.|so i want to do away with executive orders for the most part.|but look, just do me a favor. stick with me. youre going to be okay. all right?|i know, what youve said ive heard a hundred times and daycare is a huge problem. huge problem. and your wife not working? huge problem|she cant. so anyway, i bet you have a great wife. good wife? better believe it.|were ending common core. youre not going to be educated your kids in wisconsin are no longer going to be educated in washington, d.c.|by bureaucrats many of whom i cant say all but many of whom dont care for your kids. they couldnt care less. they get|big, fat salaries. your kids are going to be educated locally.|were terminating common core, and you will see something thats magic. and ive seen it where parents and all of these people the|uncles, the aunts theyre all on the school boards. they get professionals. they have great principals.|you cant see whats going on from washington, d.c. many of the people never even come here. they sit behind their desk in washington. they draw|big salaries. and theyre telling you how to educate their kids. not going to happen that way.|and ive even seen it where they keep graduates the child graduates and those parents stay on. they love it because their child went through|the system. they love it and they become so good at it. thats whats going to happen.|were one of the worst in the world in education. were going to be one of the better ones. not necessarily you know, i dont know|that were going to beat sweden, norway, denmark, and china. but were going to come very close.|discipline in schools. i dont think that wisconsin should have a big problem with discipline. you have a big problem with discipline?|well, we have to get discipline back in the country, forget about school. we have to get discipline |i mean, i have a case. i have a wonderful guy campaign manager. you talk about discipline. and you probably saw what happened today with my|campaign manager. hes a good guy. corey .|and by the way, the easiest thing "corey, youre fired." i cant do that. cant do it.|so fortunately, i have a taping system. you know, very im rich so i have tapes all over.|so this young woman who complained, was all she was talking about being maybe thrown to the floor and all this. i said, "oh, thats horrible."|and then we saw the tapes.|did anybody see the tape? what did you think? right? nothing.|women what did you think? |i mean, she wasnt like her face stayed the same.|if somebody squeezed your arm or did something really bad dont forget initially she said thrown to the floor. but if somebody squeezed|your arm or hurt you, wouldnt you start screaming or something?|did you see any change in her face?|its horrible. its horrible. honestly, its horrible.|and the best thing i could do is say but i cant destroy a man. id destroy him. got a beautiful wife and children and im not going|to destroy a man for that.|and you know what? when i saw that at the tape, at first i said, "oh, this is terrible." then i saw the tape. its my tape. im the one that had|the tape. its on the ceiling of this incredible club in jupiter, florida, and were all leaving and we have a press conference. right?|and the press conference lasted a long time. it was like 45 minutes. so that was enough.|im leaving with a whole big gang of people. people pushing left and right, left and right.|and all of a sudden, she bolts into the picture. she grabs me or hits me on the arm. in fact, im like this with my arm up and then he goes by and|maybe he touched her a little bit. but i didnt it was almost like he was trying to keep her off me. right?|like he was helping her. and did you see her fall to the ground?|okay, because she talked about falling to now after, i must tell you, her statement changed big league because she said go to the ground. you|know, all this. i could read it to you. does anybody want to hear it?|i mean, i want to be accurate because id like the press to treat me.|so before she knew she was on tape, she said "i was jolted backwards."|was she jolted backwards? i mean, if she was, her face stayed the same. i mean.|"i was jolted backwards. someone grabbed me tightly by the arm and yanked me me down. campaign managers arent supposed to forcefully throw|reporters to the ground, except she never went to the ground. she never even came flinched.|she didnt you know, if somebody grabbed you even one of the guys, even the bikers, if somebody grabs even a biker or punches you a little|bit, youre "whoa!" right? i mean, the toughest guy, the toughest woman. look at her face. its zero.|theyre going to destroy a mans life?|and then i have cruz saying, "oh, that was a terrible thing. that was a terrible thing."|let me tell you something, folks. if i win, if i lose, i didnt need to do this. im doing this because i just had a beautiful grandchild with|ivanka. ivanka and jared beautiful, beautiful grandchild. its my eighth. im doing this all for them.|i didnt need to do this. this is not so easy. and i had no idea. you know, maybe none of us did. you know, i had no idea the message was going to|get across. its a message of competence. it really is. its a message of common sense and its a message of competence.|and i had no idea that wed have millions of more votes than we had when we had that stiff mitt romney a total stiff who by the way|hes a dope. hes not a smart person. ill tell you right now.|let me tell you about mitt romney. that was an election he should have won and he lost. and he should just go away and let the big boys do it now|because you know what? thats an election that should have been won.|and ill tell you what. i helped john mccain and at that time, honestly, that was a tough deal for him because the world was sort of collapsing. but|he lost.|and i helped mitt romney a lot and he lost. and i said, "this time, were going to do it ourselves. were going to win. were going to win."|so just remember that.|were going to win because of wisconsin, i hope |right! shes so smart. i dont want them to know. i dont want to tell putin what im thinking. shes so smart.|what you just said what about ukraine? dont worry about ukraine. ukraine is going to be fine. just dont ask me why.|you know, this world of politics "mr. trump, you said -" dont forget im the one that said take the oil. i was right. they didnt|take the oil. you know who has the oil right now? isis has the oil.|you know, that libya isis has all that oil from gaddafi, all of that big oil from gaddafi. he took it. were like a bunch of dummies.|why arent we embargoing? why arent we creating a nice big circle so they cant get the oil out? why arent we taking that oil back?|look, look, look, im the one that says though i dont want to say everything.|if i win, i have a good chance of winning. im the frontrunner by a lot. i want to go in there. i want to knock the hell out of isis. i dont|want to tell all. i really mean this.|i dont want to tell everybody in this room and look at all the cameras that are going now i dont want to tell the world what|im going to do because theyre watching.|just let me do it folks. i will do it. you would be so happy. you dont have to know the details. okay? let me do it.|you know, i used the word before. we have to be a little bit unpredictable. we cant say, "well, were going and attack on march 14th and then|were going to hit them from the front and then were going to hit them from the back."|you know, obama did that eight months ago with one of the cities. he said, "were going in next week."|look, folks, folks, folks, you know, you have to trust there has to be some trust. right? do you trust?|weve got to stop the stupid. thats why i really think your question is so great "i dont want to hear how youre going to do it,|mr. trump. just do it." ill do it. okay?|i love that. that woman! that woman! thank you, honey. thank you.|okay. i can see why.|woman:|thank you. you have been i just want to say thank you. you saved me in so many ways.|in recent years, ive been struggling with an incurable illness and im on home care now. its caused by a doctors medical negligence.|and in those dark days fighting right now all the tubes have been removed and i have a do not resuscitate order and i have a seven-year-old son|in those days in the hospital, i received from you a handwritten letter that said, "to the bravest woman i know."|i remember that. i remember that. such a wonderful, beautiful woman. i mean, just an amazing woman.|and are you coming along okay?|woman:|no, sir. but thats okay because im here right now to thank you in person and that was my biggest dream.|and i wanted to thank you because through you and your organizations, my son whos mexican-american, seven-years-old, through your organization and|just being able to stand on that stage with you back in 2005 the outpouring of love that can from that ultimately provided my son when he graduates high|school with a full ride to college.|thats great. and you know what well do? were going to watch him. youre going to watch him. were going to be watching your boy.|okay? but youre going to be hopefully around. youre not going to have to have anybody watching. youre going to hopefully be around. those|doctors are going to be so wrong. but well be helping you.|woman:|so we thank you. god bless you. and just, you know, hes a mexican-american, and you because of your efforts have sent him to college. and i have|been writing letters to him for when im in heaven to tell him that what youve done for him now he has a great responsibility to pay it forward|just as you have done for us.|thats so nice. thank you.|i have to go down and say hello. is that okay?|very sad but i think its going to be really a story of hope and something that is really great is going to happen out of that. you watch.|but it sort of tells me when i first said this people would say, "oh, it will cost a lot." forgetting about the campaign. thats peanuts by|comparison. you know, ive spent tens of millions of dollars.|but the big thing i lost certain businesses and i owned the miss universe pageant. i bought it very inexpensively many years ago 15 years|ago and because of the fact that they thought i was against this woman or that one, i had a hard time with television.|now, the good news is i sold it for a wonderful i was very happy with that. but i didnt want to sell it. but i sold it and i built it to|really a great company. we did a great job with that company miss universe, miss usa, miss teen usa.|but other businesses i sort of like the shirts and the ties with macys. macys was unbelievably disloyal because of illegal|immigration and they ended the shirts, ties. who care? i mean, thats not a big deal.|but im doing something nobody is giving up what im giving.|i mean, when cruz runs, he runs. if he wins, great. if he loses, great. you know, its him. hes a politician. they just they run, they|win, they lose, who knows?|but these guys run for office. thats all they do.|ive always heard that if youre a very successful person, you cant run for office, especially for president. you just cant run for|president, and i can see it. i have so much false press about me. things that are so false.|you know, i saw the other day on television, there were like 56,000 negative ads on me. 56,000.|in fact, in florida, i own doral and in florida we had the tournament there two weeks. adam scott the great adam scott the great golfer. he|was winning. and in between shots, i told you this after the victory speech, in between they have commercials and they were all about trump. negative,|horrible, negative commercials. mostly false. mostly. not all false. but mostly false, i have to be honest.|but it came out the other day, i think it said "$68 million, 55,000 negative ads." negative ads.|and when i was running in florida, i said "how is it possible to win?" i mean, with all of this because i knew it. you couldnt turn on in florida|where i was you couldnt turn on the television without seeing trump commercials. sometimes four or five in a row. and they were horrendous. done by|very, very bad people. very bad, evil people.|and i said, "how it is possible to win?"|and god helped me. honestly. because i won in a landslide. i won by almost 20%.|and now theyre doing it here. club for growth. its a crooked outfit.|look, club for growth you ever hear this? club for growth a friend of mine, hes a conservative guy. he goes would you do me a favor?|see club for growth. i said, "whats club for growth?" he said, "they want to talk to you." i said, "all right. send them up." hes a friend.|hes a good guy. and now im in politics so i have to see people i wouldnt normally |so club for growth, they come up to my office. this guy was i think a former congressman. and he tells me a little bit about club for growth and im|falling asleep. and then he goes, "$1 million." and i said, "$1 million for what? i dont even know you. ive never met you." i said, "do me a|favor." im trying to be nice and i said, "go back and write me a little note if you can." and he was stupid enough to write me a note.|he writes me a letter asking for $1 million. i let him know that im not interested. you could be rich. id rather take a million and throw it|all over this room. id rather give it to you, to your boy.|they write me a letter. its like extortion. they asked me for a $1 million. i said no nicely. and then theyre doing ads all over wisconsin.|club for growth. they did it all over florida. club for growth. about eminent domain.|by the way, without eminent domain, you wouldnt have highways, you wouldnt have hospitals, you wouldnt have bridges. you need eminent|domain. if somethings in your way and youre building a highway, if youre producing 7,000 jobs and you need a little corner of|someones property, every once in a while.|you know, its funny. these guys all want the keystone pipeline. right? everyone. conservatives. conservatives want the keystone pipeline. i like|the keystone pipeline too. but they have a whole big thing on eminent domain in their prospectus because without eminent domain, they wouldnt go 15|feet. they wouldnt be able to build it.|so, they dont want eminent domain. they do commercials about eminent domain. they love the keystone pipeline, and the whole keystone pipeline is|based around eminent domain because youve got to go from canada, where cruz was born, to texas, where hes representing. think of it.|this guy and dont forget that. remember what i said. im going to win. just remember what i said. im going to win. and i thank|you |im going to win. but remember this. if for some reason he does, he gets the nomination, the first thing remember, im a good|prognosticator, im a good predictor the first thing thats going to happen is the democrats are going to sue ted cruz. he was born in|canada. he lived there for four years. the head of the harvard law school, one of the top people in the business in terms of constitution, is saying|that, you know, hes wrong. and we have a bunch of other people that are much stronger than even that.|remember this. if cruz gets lucky and wins, and the only way he can get lucky is if he doesnt get because its all establishment. you|know, if i go into that whole mess of the convention, im not the establishment. i dont take their money. i dont hire their people. i|dont do any of that stuff. okay? so you have a disadvantage.|but if cruz wins, remember what i said. just remember. again, hes not going to win. but if he does, he gets the nomination, within the first few|days he will be sued by the democrats that he doesnt have the right to be president. and i think theyre right because he wasnt born on|our soil. he wasnt born. hes not a natural born citizen. hes not a natural born citizen.|i dont like to make a big deal of this but it was just brought up by somebody. he is not a natural born citizen. so if for some reason he should|get the nomination, i really believe youre wasting your time and boy do we have a problem because youre going to have somebody thats|going to be sued, probably will lose the lawsuit.|again, he was born there, lived there for four years, mother was there, the whole thing for a long period of time, and he was a canadian citizen joint|with u.s. until 14 or 15 months ago. did anyone know that? so he was a senator from texas, only because of the great sarah palin by the way, without|sarah palin, he could have never won that election. it was a fluke. but he was a senator from texas. he lived he was a joint citizen. now, he|finally gave up his citizenship to canada like 16 months ago. he said, "oh, i didnt know i was a citizen of canada also." just like he didnt|know that goldman sachs and citibank gave him money. i mean, this guy is you just have to study him, folks.|look, again, im doing this. were going to win. were going to turn this country around. were going to make america great again.|were going to win a lot. but you have to know the facts.|i love you all. i love you all. thank you. thank you. thank you very much. thank you. get out there and vote! thank you!|thank you. thank you! thank you very much everybody. this was an amazing evening. this was a great evening.|they just announced north carolina.|i dont know if theyve even announced illinois yet but were leading by a lot so i think theyre going to announce it.|florida was so amazing.|and i want to thank our friends. northern marianas islands have been so incredible, and we picked up nine delegates this morning. i heard very early in|the morning nine delegates. thats a lot.|and i just wanted to thank the governor, ralph torres, great guy, chairman ada who was a fantastic man and that was a very nice start to the|day. that i can tell you.|many things have been happening over the last short period of time.|cnn was very nice. they came up with a poll. the poll said 49% to 14% and 15%.|we just had one from the economist just came out 53%.|and it was sort of interesting because i was watching the news a little while ago and one of the commentators, who im not particularly fond of but|these are minor details, said "but donald trump doesnt get over 50%" because im at 43%, 45%.|actually now according to the economist, im at 53%.|and i have to explain to these people they dont understand basic physics, basic mathematics, basic whatever you want to call it. when i dont|get over 50%, we have four people. right? we have four people. do you understand that?|so when i get 53% and this one is an example, i had 53% and thats with four people. thats an achievement just mathematically when you|can get over 50%.|so someday, someday theyre going to understand, someday when we take it all, theyll understand. but it is really ridiculous.|i want to thank my family. my boy, eric and don. theyve been working so hard.|ivanka and jared have been amazing. ivankas home right now. in about two minutes, ill call her. shes about to have a baby so i dont|know. weve been thinking about that now for a little while but ivanka has been so helpful and jared has been amazing and its been just great.|i want to thank barron for putting up with the fact that i never see him anymore. and i want to thank barron. i never see my barron and its his|birthday on sunday so were very happy about that.|so its a little tough. you know, were going away and he goes, "when are you going to be come home, daddy? when are you coming home?" i said,|"well, in about two and a half weeks." its been pretty tough.|youre traveling all over the place. its really amazing. yesterday i went up to ohio. i went up to youngstown.|we had an incredible crowd and just amazing people in this country. we have so, so many great people.|we will someday in the not so distant future if i win otherwise its not going to happen i have to be honest with you. but apple and all of|these great companies will be making their product in the united states, not in china, vietnam and all of |and were not going to be losing our companies. you know, our companies are leaving our country rapidly, rapidly, whether its carrier air|conditioning, whether its ford, whether its eaton.|i was in cleveland and eaton corp. theyre leaving and so many companies are leaving. and frankly, im disgusted with it and im tired of|seeing it and theres no reason for it. its just gross incompetence at the highest level. we should not allow it to happen. pfizer, great|company, pharmaceutical company, theyre going to ireland.|and theres so many more. you have corporate inversions. you have people who cant get their money back into the country because the politicians|cant get along. they cant make a deal.|everybody agrees democrat and republican everybody agrees the money should come back trillion dollars outside of this country. everybody|agrees that the money should be here and the politicians for three years havent been able to make a deal.|and we could make a deal. theres an example of something that you could do if i sat down with a few of the senators, a few of the congressmen, you|could make a deal on that in 10 minutes if you know what youre doing because everybody wants to do it.|and companies are actually leaving our country to get their money, not only because our taxes are too high, which were going to lower by the way.|but companies are leaving our country in order to go and get money thats their money because theres no way of bringing it in.|so, weve got a long way to go. but i think at some point its going to get done. this has been very exciting, this whole process.|we started, i was one of 17 people senators, governors. ive had such great support. dr. ben carson the other day endorsed us. great guy.|great guy. wonderful man. and chris christie endorsed us. that was so incredible.|and today pam bondi came up and endorsed us. she was great. she is a truly wonderful woman, of the job shes done in florida is incredible.|you know, so many weve had such incredible support. paul ryan called me the other day tremendous call. i spoke with mitch mcconnell|today. we had a great conversation.|the fact is we have to bring our party together. we have to bring it together.|we have something happening that actually makes the republican party probably the biggest political story anywhere in the world. everybodys writing|about it all over europe, all over the world theyre talking about it.|millions of people are coming in to vote. this was an example of it today. many, many more people. im looking at the polling booths. im|looking at the different polling booths all around the country where its up. and the lines are four, five, six blocks long. and the woman one|woman was there for 40 years. shes been working the polls. and she said, "wed have two people here. wed have three people. now look at|the line." and the line looked like it was, you know, long. it was really long. five deep and long. and its just a different thing.|we have a great opportunity and the people that are voting are democrats are coming in, independents are coming in, and very, very importantly, people|that never voted before. its an incredible thing.|i want to pay my respects by the way to todd palin, sarahs husband. sarah was here. she was incredible. she was making a speech on my behalf and|fantastic and everybody loves her. and what happened is he was in a very bad accident. hes tough as nails. hes going to be fine. but i just|wanted to pay my respects by the way to todd.|so, our theme when we started and melania and i came down. yeah, sit down everybody. please. i mean, this is mar-a-lago. we give you seats. you|dont have to stand. im looking at all these people.|cory, good job, cory. good job. and hope and our whole squad. right?|so when this began, melania and i and i said, "got to do it." and she was so supportive and shes been so supportive. its been amazing. and we|have to do it.|we came down the escalator and it was about trade and it was about borders. and what happened is pretty quickly after that and we were we shot|right up. i shot right to the top of the polls and have been leading in the polls almost from the beginning without fail.|we went up in june. most people said ill never run. hes just going to have fun. hes having a good time. this isnt necessarily |i mean, im having a good time. you know, im having a very nice time. but you know what? im working very hard and there is great anger.|believe me. there is great anger.|one of the broadcasters was saying, "is there anger?" and i said i was supposed to say, "no, theres not. we love the way things are working. we|love the deal you made with iran. its wonderful. you give them $150 billion. we get nothing. we love all the deals. the trade deals are wonderful.|you lose $500 billion a year with china. we lose $58 billion a year in terms of imbalance. its a total imbalance."|we dont make good deals anymore. we dont win anymore. as a country, we dont win anymore.|and they asked, "is there anger from your people?" theyre not angry people but they want to see the country properly run. they want to see|borders. they want to see good health care. they want to see things properly taken care of. they want our military rebuilt. our military is in a very|bad state. they want it rebuilt. very, very importantly, and they want the second amendment by the way protected and protected strongly and thats|going to happen.|and you know what they want so badly? they want our veterans taken care of. our veterans are treated so badly.|so, we started and something happened called paris. paris happened and paris was a disaster. that was there have been many disasters. but it was|paris.|and then we had a case in los angeles where it was in california where the 14 young people were killed. and it just goes on and on and on.|and what happened with me is this whole run took on a whole new meaning, not just borders, not just good trade deals. were going to make the best|trade deals youve ever seen.|weve got such endorsements from carl icahn and the smartest people in business. and these people are going to be negotiating our deals and|theyre the best in the world. we have the best business people in the world. were going to have such great deals. were going to do so|good with trade. were going to do so good on the border.|but it took on a whole new meaning, and the meaning was very simple. we need protection in our country and thats going to happen and all of a|sudden the poll numbers shot up. and im just very proud to be a part of this.|i think were going to go. were going to go on a lot of trips over the next month but i think were going to have a great victory.|and i think more importantly than anything else we are going to start winning again. this country is going to start winning again. we dont win|anymore.|we dont win with our military. we cant beat isis. were going to knock the hell out of them.|we dont win at trade china, everybody, japan, mexico, vietnam, india, name the country. anybody we deal, anybody we do business with beats|us. we dont win at trade. were going to win at trade. were going to make our country rich again. were going to make our country|great again. and we need the rich in order to make the great, im sorry to tell you.|so, im going forward. we had a fantastic evening. i would have never thought this could have happened. i guess were waiting for one result|which possibly will be very successful also.|but to win the states that weve won and to win by the margins and especially, look, this is my second home, florida. to win by that kind of a|number is incredible. its record-setting.|and i have to say that number one, i want to congratulate marco rubio on having run a really tough campaign. hes tough. hes smart. and|hes got a great future. hes got a great future.|but i have to say and nobody has ever, ever in the history of politics received the kind of negative advertising that i have. record, record, record. by|the way, mostly false. i wouldnt say 100% but about 90%. mostly false, vicious, horrible.|they said it was $18 million the first week, meaning last week, and $25 million. it added up to over $40 million.|and you explain it to me because i cant my numbers went up. i dont understand it. nobody understands it. my numbers went up.|i mean, its been an interesting experience. last week, adam scott won at the trump national doral. won the big tournament, the world championship|of golf. and adam, whos a great guy i guess a lot of you folks saw that but im watching we have television screens all over.|were down at this gorgeous green at doral and everything is working beautifully and then a commercial comes on. the worst commercial and im|with these wonderful people from cadillac and all these top executives, and im saying, "look over there! look! dont watch it. dont. you|dont want to watch it." im saying, "isnt the grass beautiful? look! look! dont watch."|and they came in waves one after another after another and it was brutal.|and then adam comes in. hes this handsome kid from australia, one of the greatest golfers in the world, made an unbelievable shot on the 18th hole|to win the tournament. hes a great champion. and were giving the award.|and just before we break for a commercial, "well be right back with our great champion from australia, adam scott" and heres the commercial|and i said, "no!" and it was two of them two of them. oh, what a day that was. what a disaster. what a disaster. unbelievable.|so again, i just want to congratulate everybody. this is a really interesting process. its an amazing process. its very tough. but it is |by the end, if you get to the end, you can handle a lot of things including pressure because theres nothing like it. lies, deceit, viciousness,|disgusting reporters, horrible people. its true. some are nice. some are nice. some really disgusting people back there.|and i just want to say were going to go forward and were going to win. but more importantly, were going to win for the country. were|going to win, win, win, and were not stopping. were going to have great victories for our country.|thank you very much everybody! thank you!|so its so important. you getting out to vote. its just so important because our country has been taken away from us. its going so|fast.|and you know, youre talking about second amendment because i was asking with randy and a lot of people, i was talking to some of the people before,|"what would you like me to focus on?" and they said, "just second amendment. second amendment."|now, the second amendment means a lot of other things too the second amendment in under siege. you know that. you know that very well.|we lost a great supreme court justice and nobody thought this was going to be part of the equation. and all of a sudden if somebody gets in thats|the wrong person, theyll take away that second amendment so fast your head will spin.|you see bloomberg is somebody that wants to knock out the second amendment. hillary is a disaster on the second amendment. no, they want to take it|away.|so, its just not going to happen. its not going to happen.|but we lost our wonderful justice who was a great man and a great second amendment person.|i just heard coming up, you know, the senators. weve been very disappointed. im a republican. many of you are republicans. but were not|being protected whether its a budget. you saw the budget that was approved a month ago. it was approved by the republicans. they gave it away. they|gave obama everything.|so obama wants to put in a supreme court judge. he said he wants hes going to be a very negative person to guns because thats the way it|is, okay? believe me, that will be the way it is. and basically they dont have the right to do that.|but i keep saying, "well, are the republicans going to fail or are they going to crack? whats going to happen?" and coming up today, i hear, "well,|there could be a way of obama pushing it through." here we go, right? here we go.|same thing you heard with obamacare. its going to be defeated. its going to be repealed. were going to repeal and replace obamacare.|believe me.|but i mean, look whats going on with your premiums. 35%, 45%, 55% up. your deductible is so high. i mean, youve got to see that truck|right there? youve got to get hit by that truck in order to ever use it.|so, i come up and im hearing that obama now who said by the way yesterday, "donald trump will not be the president. he will not be." no, its a|compliment. look, hes been perhaps the worst president in the history of the united states. so its a compliment.|but he was all over the place yesterday. said, "donald trump will not be " i think we have maybe a little surprise in store, and we start right|here in south carolina.|you know, new hampshire was so amazing. we had a big, big victory in new hampshire. amazing people.|and then we come down here and i said, "you know, i think we have an ever bigger lead over here."|and the people have been incredible no matter where we go to speak. even this. i know that four years ago, you had about 200 people here for the same|kind of thing for your frontrunner and hes a good frontrunner, a good guy, and he did well but you had 400 people, 200 people. you have thousands|of people here and we just appreciate it, and i wont forget it. believe me, im not going to forget it. im not going to forget it.|so i hear that theyre talking about trying to get a liberal judge and a judge that does not like the second amendment and a judge that and|this is one of many. this is one of many but a judge that doesnt want to do a number on the guns and that doesnt know how important it is.|were just not going to let it happen. okay? its not going happen. and if we elected, we know that. but we have 9 months, 10 months to go. we|have to have the republicans hold fast because im just hearing these little cracks, saying "well, maybe if he appoints somebody, maybe we could get|along, maybe." its not the way its supposed to be.|now, its possible that theyll have their wish because if they win, theyre going to be having their choice. but if they dont win,|were going to start really taking back because we have 3 or 4 or 5 maybe supreme court judges. this was not supposed to be one in question. this|was a very sad circumstance that happened with i mean, really to me it was a very sad circumstance. but now were going to see what happens.|i will only tell you this. we are doing well. we have a really good chance to win. if we can win in south carolina, were going to go i mean,|we could very well run the table.|i dont know if you saw i guess a lot of you have seen actually next week in nevada. its going to be phenomenal. the relationship there|to the people bush is 1% in nevada. this guy why doesnt he just give up, just go home? go home. go home to mom. got to go home to mommy.|you know, bush is only at 1% in nevada. a couple of them are, you know, at 10%, 11%, or 12%. im at like 40% something 48%. so i think|were going to do well.|then i think we have the sec. were going to have the sec, which is going to be i think amazing.|but really now were starting. new hampshire could not have been better. they gave us a tremendous send-off. they really started us on our way.|and we did well in iowa. i mean, some votes were stolen from ben carson, which by the way was a disgrace. what cruz what this guy cruz did with|ben carson was an absolute disgrace. what he did was he stole. its theft. and then they come out with a voter violation form, which is a|fraud as far as im concerned. and what he did with that whole thing was a disgrace. so were not going to let that stuff happen anymore. i|mean, were not going to let it. we will not let it happen. were all watching. youre all watching. keep your eyes wide open.|these politicians heres a guy, he raises the bible and yet he tells fibs, he tells lies, and then he does this stuff to carson and he does|other things. very bad.|so politicians are bad people. boy, they are bad. would you believe it?|so were not going to let it happen and were going to get in there so saturday. go out and vote. this is going to be the place thats|really going to make it.|and honestly, ive been watching all the pundits. now, the bad news is theyre always wrong. they all said im not running and i ran. well,|how is he going to do? hes just doing this for fun. im not doing this for fun. believe me, i love this location but i know i can be someplace|else. okay? i could be someplace else right now. i could be very happy.|but im doing it because you know the expression and i see all the hats in the audience make america great again. we are going to make america|so |we are going to win again. you know, we dont win very much. youre very smart, tough people. you like to win. right? this guy over here. you|like to win. and we dont win anymore. we used to win. we dont win anymore. well, were going to start winning again. were going to|start winning again.|so, second amendment protected. common core. were going to end common core. were bringing your education locally. its going to be|fabulous. i dont know if you know or if youve heard me say we have the absolute worst we spend number one in the world on education.|right? number one per pupil in the world. there is no second place because were so high, so much you have china, you have norway, you have|denmark, you have sweden. you have these countries are the best in terms of education and theyre on the list the best. and the 30th in the top 30|were number 30th. okay? were number one in costs.|thats a little bit like what im doing. im the least spent money. you know, im funding my own campaign. right? so, i dont have a|lot of the people coming to me. you know, the drug companies and all of the because if you would see the kind of waste, fraud, and corruption in|the united states, a lot of it isnt really waste, fraud, and corruption. its the fact that people that are running against me and people in|the senate, people in congress, they have tremendous power because they have people giving them unbelievable campaign contributions and theyre|special interests and they do what those people want. and thats one of the reasons why our budget is out of whack, the military is out of whack.|the military orders equipment they dont even want and the stuff they do want they dont get because the company that makes that equipment is|like, you know, its not politically adept, and companies that really are, they make the equipments we dont want. its going to all change|because im not getting any money from all of these people. i dont give a damn. i mean, were going to do the right thing. were going|to absolutely do the right thing.|ill tell you a little story. so the drug companies. we are the largest purchasers of drugs in the world, the united states which makes a lot of|sense i guess. but we purchase more drugs that make you better, drugs that make you better, not the kind of drugs that come over the southern border,|which were going to end. okay? were going to build a wall. yup. folks, by the way, were going to build a wall and whos going to pay|for the wall?|you better believe it. we have a trade deficit with mexico of $58 billion. and these characters come up, these politicians that im running against,|"you dont really think mexico is going to pay for the wall?" i said, "absolutely, 100%." they said, "how are you going to get mexico to pay?" and i|dont want to get into it because they wont understand it. i mean, they have no concept of business. they have no you know, the $150|billion we gave to iran, these people have no concept.|we have a $58 billion trade deficit with mexico. okay? the wall is going to cost $12 billion. maybe less. if i build it, itll be taller, better,|and less. okay?|so you think of this. so you think of this. so they said, "how are you going to possibly do it?"|they make so much money. plus we give them subsidy. they make so much money from the united states its going to be one of the easiest things.|and i dont know if youve heard, one of the presidents or ex-presidents of mexico held a news conference. he said, "we will never ever, ever|pay for the wall." and the press called me. they said, "they said they will never pay for the wall." i said, "who was it?" calderon. hes very nice,|good guy. i said, "tell him the following. the wall just got 10 feet higher." i mean it. it got 10 feet higher. yeah, theyre going to pay for it.|and i get along great with mexico. the problem is i mean, they buy apartments. i have hundreds and hundreds and even thousands of workers are|hispanics who im doing great with. we have such an amazing relationship with hispanics and theyre great people.|the problem is the leaders of mexico are too smart for our leaders. theyre too smart. theyre too cunning.|you look at whats going on. its unbelievable. the border is a disaster. its a sieve. people flow over. its not going to happen|anymore, folks. people can come into our country but theyre going to come in legally. theyre going to come in through a process. theyre|going to come in, theyre going to come in legally.|so with trade, were going to solve the trade problem. i dont know if you saw carrier air conditioner announced two days ago theyre moving|to mexico. nabisco. theyre moving their big plant from chicago to mexico. ford, theyre moving this massive complex theyre building|a $2.5 billion plant and now theyve just announced theyre building it bigger.|ive been talking about this for two years. yesterday, the wall street journal, they announced theyre building it bigger. in another words,|theyre doubling down. you know why? nobody does anything about it. im going to do something about it.|so i watched somebody asked, "what would you do about carrier?" because that was a sad case. somebody used their cell phone and they were telling|them, "youre out of work. youre out of job. forget it. its over. were moving to mexico." are crying. grown men that have been there|for a long time. really incredible people. and theyre crying and theyre devastated and they lost their job and theyve never had another|job and now this plant this whole thing is moving to mexico.|and they said, "what would you do?" i said ill tell you what im going to do because you know they talk about free trade. im a free|trader. but i say oh if i put a tax on these characters these idiots. i mean, theyre like stupid. they say "donald trump is not a true|conservative because he taxes." its got to be fair stuff, folks. its got to be fair. im a conservative person.|hey, im the most conservative on the border. im the most conservative with the military. nobodys tougher than me. im the most|conservative. we are going to make our military so big, so strong, so powerful, nobodys ever going to mess with us, folks. we wont have to use|im the most conservative on taking care of the vets. our vets are treated horribly. were going to take care of our im the most|conservative on common core. were ending common core i told you that and were moving it locally. and nobody is more conservative|and we call toughness but nobody is more conservative on the second amendment. so all of these things.|but with carrier theyre coming across and theyre going to build a plant and probably get some subsidies from mexico probably |weve probably given them subsidies. they probably have the united states giving subsidies to move out of the country. thats how stupid it is|and thats how stupid were running they said, "what would you do?" i say its very easy. we call them. we say lets have a meeting.|heres the story folks. youre moving to mexico. congratulations. but if you dont stay in the united states youre going to have a|problem. but heres what you do it. you want to move to mexico, build your factory, its going to be wonderful. hire your people theyre not|from the united states. all those people are now looking for jobs. those are good jobs. you know were hiring a lot of part-timers now the numbers|are totally phony. the 5% totally phony numbers. so i say heres what were going to do. very simple. you build your plant in mexico.|enjoy yourselves. and youre going to have air conditioners and just have them cross the border and sell them to the united states? no, youre|going to pay a 35% tax on every air conditioner. its true. its the only thing you can do.|and you know what? its the only thing you can do. theres nothing else. because otherwise how are you going to get them to stop?|and then you have the devaluation with china. the all-time. theyre like grand chess masters or grand i mean these people are the greatest|the greatest in history. theyre grandmasters of that devaluation. they devalue their currency.|japan is doing very well too. theyre killing caterpillar. you know, theyre ordering komatsu tractors now because theyve devalued |look, you take a look at whats happened to the yen and its very hard. a friend a mine. hes a big excavator. you all know excavators. i|love excavators. this guys a very big one. he buys caterpillar tractors all the time and excavators. he just put in a big order for komatsu. not|that he wanted to. he said, "donald, they made it impossible for me not to buy. theyve devalued the yen to such an extent japan that it|made it, i mean, i owe it to my family, to my company, to myself. i have no choice." and he was like depressed. he wanted to buy caterpillar |well china is doing that times 100, times 1,000, and what theyre doing is the devaluation of their currency makes it impossible for people to|compete. we cant allow that stuff to happen.|look, when we send stuff over to china, it doesnt get in. if it does get in, you have to pay a big tax. you know, its not supposed to be that|way. you know, its supposed to be free trade. its supposed to be they come we go, back and forth. they devalued their currency and on top of|it, they make it impossible.|i have a friend whos a great manufacturer. he said its virtually impossible to get his goods and he makes better stuff than they do. he|cant get his goods into china. when he does get them in, theres a tax to pay.|i have a friend who actually bought an airplane and he cant get it into china because the tax is so massive. hes going to sell it now at a big|loss. okay?|and think about boeing. okay? think about boeing. boeing is building a plant over here. boeing just had a big order from china. but china is making them|build a massive airline facility. right? massive. like bigger than anything youve seen.|okay, you feel good about boeing right now. tell me in five years. unless im president. youll be fine. dont worry about it. but tell me|in five years youre going to feel good about boeing because ill tell you whats happening. they are going to build that plant |theyre building it, its going to be finished soon theyre going to build that plant, theyre going to devalue the hell out of|their currency, and all of a sudden youll be reading a big front page story all over the place that boeing is going to leave, right, south|carolina, theyre going to make all their planes in china. because this is what they do. thats what they do. and our leaders arent smart|enough to stop it, okay?|i have carl icahn endorse me. great businessman, very rich guy, very, very successful. if i told carl, carl, watch over china trade, were going to|be in great shape.|we have right now people that have no concept of what theyre doing. they have no concept of what theyre doing. theyre political hacks.|thats what they are. theyre political hacks and these are the people that are negotiating with these people china. and again, china likewise,|i get along great with china. largest bank in the world my tenant. they buy condos for tens of millions of dollars. i have the bank of america building|in california. i own a big chunk of that. i got that through china through a very complex set of transactions but through china.|i mean, i think china is terrific. im not angry at china. im angry at our leaders for not being able to compete with china. im not angry.|so were going to get things changed around. were going to use our best people. were going to be so smart, and were going to start|winning again. were going to have strong borders. were going to have strong military. were going to take care of our vets. were|going to have such great trade deals. were going to win again. were going to win again. were going to win so much.|and you know, and by the way, we are going to get rid of isis and were going to get rid of them fast.|i was against the war in iraq from the beginning. i was against the war in iraq. we shouldnt have done it. we did it. then obama got out the wrong|way. we shouldnt have done iraq. we did it. it destabilized the middle east. exactly. if you go back, you could see 2003, 2004, i said its|going to totally destabilize the middle east because you had iran and iraq and they were the same militarily. theyd fight, fight, fight. boom. then|theyd rest. then theyd fight, fight, fight for years and years and years. we decapitated iraq and now iran is taking over. not only do they|get the $150 billion. maybe the worst transaction ive ever seen negotiated. no, no, dont buy the famous obama administration.|the worst, one of the dumbest deals ive ever seen. i mean, we get nothing. we get nothing.|we should have gotten those hostages before we started even negotiating. not now. we should have gotten them years ago.|but if you look at whats going on and now on top of that we gave them iraq because iran is now taking over iraq. its just taking them over.|so heres what we did. we spent $2 trillion, thousands of lives lost, wounded warriors who we all love all over the place. theyre the best|people. most incredible. theyre tougher than all of us these people. i mean, what theyve gone through. so the wounded warriors all over the|place. you know what we have? we have nothing. we have nothing. we have absolutely nothing. so heres what were going to do. were going to|change things around. were going to be smart. and we have well do what we have to do in terms of isis and all. but we have to start|rebuilding our country.|we have $4 trillion in the various places. $4 trillion. not going to happen anymore.|were going to have a strong military. but were going to have to rebuild our roads, our bridges, our tunnels, our schools, our hospitals.|i mean, our country is like a third world country. you go over to qatar, you go over to some of these places in the middle east. you go to china. you|see the airports. you see the bridges. they have bridges that are so incredible youve never seen anything like it. they have railroad trains that|go 350 miles an hour and we have things that go chug, chug, chug, chug like from 100 years ago.|weve become like a third world nation because were fighting everybody elses battles. and remember this, we are like the policemen of the|world but we dont get paid anything. we protect germany. we protect japan. do you know that in japan if we get attacked, we have a treaty with|japan, if we get attacked they dont have to do anything. if they get attacked, we have world war iii, we have to protect them. okay? i mean, who|makes these deals?|we protect as an example south korea, who have a maniac right next to them. right? but we protect south korea. so every time we order televisions, they|come from south korea, they make a fortune. we protect south korea. let me tell you something. why arent they paying? they pay peanuts for what we|every time this guy, you know, raises his head, we see our ships start to sail, our soldiers get ready. we have 28,000 soldiers at the border.|so we take care of the world. we dont get it.|saudi arabia, before the oil went down, they were making $1 billion a day. $1 billion a day. and we rent space there so we can help them. we rent|military bases. we pay rent. and yet without us they wouldnt last for two weeks. theyd be gone.|so were going to change all that stuff folks. i mean, i want to be good. we want to be fair. we want to have heart. and were not going to let|these syrian folks in that we dont know who they are. we dont know where they come from. theyre not coming into this country. theyre|not coming in.|i mean, there are a lot of them. i dont know if you know it. you have a lot of them moving into south carolina. i dont know. have you heard|this? and you ought to tell your governor dont let them move to south carolina. you dont want them in south carolina.|and i know theyll say, "well, we have nothing to do. were state government." let me tell you something. if a governor from a state didnt|want to have them, i dont care what it says, you dont have to have them |we want to help them with safe zones. we want to get the gulf states to pay. i dont want to pay. we owe $19 trillion. we owe enough. we can lead it|but let the gulf states they have so much money they dont know what to do with it. let them build safe zones.|look at whats happening in germany. its a mess. look at sweden. look at brussels. i mean, brussels, you go there 20 years ago, 15 years ago it|was incredible.|so when i call for moratoriums and i call for this, first i get hit with tremendous heat. right? then everybody starts to say, "you know, hes|right."|same thing on june 16th, i announced weve got to stop illegal immigration. the heat i took was unbelievable. three, four weeks later|theyre all saying, you know, trump is right. then kate killed in san francisco, beautiful kate, by an illegal immigrant. you have jamiel in los|angeles killed. incredible guy. young man. the fathers a friend of mine a great guy. you had the veteran 65-year-old woman a|veteran raped, sodomized, and killed in los angeles by an illegal immigrant. weve got to stop it folks. weve got to stop it. weve got to|be smart. weve got to be a country again. weve got to be a country again.|so i just want to thank this endorsement meant so much to me from these two guys and from the whole community. i just want to say get out and|vote. were going to do something youre going to be so happy with. were going to win so much and were going to make america great|again. thats what we want to do. make america great again. so saturday, get out and vote. thank you! we love you all. thank you very much! thank|you. thank you very much folks.|i dont really think look, what happened is we had 17 candidates originally. i was expected to come in like anywhere maybe 10, 11, 12, 13. i|ended up coming in second. didnt devote tremendous time to it. didnt devote tremendous money to it.|in fact, i guess in terms of money per vote, im about at the bottom, meaning the most efficient.|i came in second. i came into strong second. third, i think, was quite a bit away i think 2,500 or something close to 3,000 votes away.|theres a big difference between second and third.|i think we did really well. you know, as far as thats concerned.|i think the press some of the press said i did fantastically well. some of the press doesnt want to give it credit.|i think we did very well. i didnt expect to do so well. i guess what did happen is one poll came out and said im 4 or 5 points ahead and that|maybe build up a false expectation for some people.|but it had taken me back to june 16th. i was told "dont even go to iowa. start right here in new hampshire. just dont waste your "|im going to iowa. i went. i bonded with the people, bonded with evangelicals. we did really fantastically and came very close to winning. i|mean, we came very close to winning. we came in second place.|so i am very happy with what happened in iowa. you know, you had 17 people and i was second. now, i guess you have 11 people and i was second. and i|think we did a very good job.|no, i dont think i feel any pressure. i mean, were going to just do what i have to do. and if it works out, thats great. and if it|doesnt, thats okay too because you know im here to do one thing the theme make america great again. im going to do it.|and i think we did very well i think we did really well in just about everything weve done running for office. i think we have a very good|result yesterday. it could have been a little bit better. it could have been one notch better.|but its interesting all of these governors and senators that you have way down the list, theyre at 1%, 2%, you know, in terms of what happened|what just happened theyre at 1%, theyre at 2%, theyre 3%. nobody ever talks about them. and im at 24% or 25%, and they|say, "oh, couldnt you have done better?"|you know, i think the result was quite good especially for the amount of time i spent and for the amount of money i spent.|well, i think i have i think it fits me better, probably suits me better. ive done very well in new hampshire. ive been here a lot more.|i have very good relationships with the people of new hampshire.|but ive had very good relationships with pretty much everybody.|i really dont. i really dont see that happening. i dont know whats going to happen. you dont nobody does. well see|what youll have many, many people that arent doing very well. i am doing very well. but you have many, many people that are here, that|are well-known politicians theyre governors and theyre senators but theyre not doing very well. and they just came back from|a, you know, very major defeat yesterday. and mine wasnt.|you know, its very interesting. if you look at the numbers from yesterday, i got the highest number in history outside the one number in|the history of the primary.|also, i guess they had 185,000 people, which is 45,000 or 50,000 people more than they ever had.|no, i mean, i think well get a lot of sanderss voters. you know, theyre very much into the trade world and im the best on trade. he|mentions it but i dont think hes going to be capable of doing anything about it.|no, i think were going to do really well here. i look forward to it.|we have a lot of events scheduled, yes.|well, we do. we have one commitment long-term for arkansas actually where were going to have about 10,000 people. but were going to be back|and forth very quickly. were going to have a lot of events scheduled, yes.|well, i just think, you know, im just happy with the way were doing. you know, weve bonded with the people whether its there or|here. i mean, theres just a big bonding process going on.|if you look at south carolina, its the same thing. i mean, were doing really well there. but weve devoted much more time here and south|carolina |its not a question of learning. i mean, i just want to continue to do well our theme the theme is so important. its just make america|great again. thats what were going to do. thats what were going to do. not really a question of learning.|well, if you look at the second place, people didnt talk about my second place. they didnt talk about it as positively as they should have.|and yet, with marco who was more than 2,000 votes behind me thats a lot of votes by the way they said, "oh, hes surging. hes|surging."|so, i dont know why is the third place person doing well and the second place person, who by the way has never run scott was mentioning|before "one of the amazing things about you, youve never run for office before. its incredible how you did."|my brands doing great. yeah.|no, i think just work. were going to work very hard and we have a lot of meetings, a lot of talks, a lot of speeches. were going to be meeting|with a lot of people and i think were going to do very well.|well, well be doing some of that but we also have some very big events planned like tonight, i think they have 4,000 or 5,000 people and other|people were here yesterday and they had 200 people. same venue, same everything. they had 200 people.|so we have theres a good bonding going on.|well, i enjoyed it.|i have unlimited, i have unlimited you know, its funny. when i look at the various people, they said so and so has $20 million. i have|unlimited. thats not the thing.|the only you know, im a businessperson. i want to spend wisely. and im probably $40 million under budget because of the fact that|frankly i havent had to spend very much although i guess we just did a recent filing and i would be probably having spent now maybe $14 million,|$15 million.|but im self-funding. and i must tell you, i dont know that enough people appreciate it. im self-funding anyway whether they appreciate it|or not. so i wont be influenced by the lobbies and you know et cetera, et cetera.|but i dont know i was talking to scott about this before i dont know its really appreciated by the voters. im the only|one on both sides thats self funding. im putting up my own money. and i dont know that the voters appreciate it. when they go into vote,|i dont think they say "im going to vote for trump because hes self-funding and hes not going to be influenced by lobbies and special|interests et cetera."|im going to tell them and i tell them. but sometimes they like it but i dont think its something they vote for, which is a shame because|its actually a very big thing. you understand that. its a very big thing. its a very big element if you could have somebody that can|actually self-fund and not be influenced by bad decisions or looking for themselves or looking for the company or country they represent. thats a|real positive |i just dont know whether or not the voters appreciate it.|ive learned that theyre great people. i really, i thought the people in iowa were fantastic you know, obviously i was second. i had the|largest vote getting in the history of a republican primary except for one and i brought many of those extra people in. and they also had as you know|the largest turnout in the history of republican primaries in terms of iowa by far not even close. i think it was like 50,000 or 60,000 more than|theyve ever had before. so i just i learned that they are terrific people in iowa.|yeah, i look forward to it.|no, i dont think so. i have a very good relationship with marco. i like him i dont see that necessarily.|youre talking about iowa? well, that could have been with the debate. i think it could have been the debate. i think some people were disappointed|that i didnt go in the debate.|if i had to do it again, i would have done the exact same thing. and the reason is you know why? because i raised $6 million for the vets in one|hour.|so if i took a second place instead of a first place and could give the vets $6 million, ill do that all day long.|well, were going to be spending money. were going to be spending money were going to be spending a lot of money. well be|spending money on ads and well be spending money on the ground game.|i cant help it, honey, whether im celebrity. i mean, this is me.|look, i think most people say i did a great job in iowa. i came in second. i spent far less than anybody else. and had i known that i was going to be|liked as much as i am in iowa and people did like me you will understand that i would have maybe spent a little bit more and i would have|been there a little bit more and maybe i would have won it. but, you know, im very happy with it. i have 7 delegates right at the top.|you look at other people in all fairness senators, governors theyre, you know, theyre way down.|when i have 25% or 26% and they have 1% but you people dont mention that.|but the one thing is you people dont mention that. you dont mention all the other names.|now, you mention the person, marco, good guy. but he came in third. and they make it sound like he had a victory and i didnt. but i came in second.|i started off on 17th. i was 17th. when i first started, i had nothing. and then i inched my way up went pretty rapidly actually. and now|im leading everything and i did okay in iowa. pretty good in iowa.|well, i think were going to have great success here. i think its a much different kind of a process. this isnt a caucusing process. this|is a much different this is a normal voting process. the iowa is a much different kind of a thing.|well, he insulted me. i mean, he started with the insults, as you know. and he insulted ben carson by doing what he did to ben|carson. that was a disgrace. and he insulted the people of iowa by doing a voter violation form that nobodys ever seen before which was|disgraceful. no, no, hes a man of insult.|no, im going. i have thousands of people going. no, but we dont have that invite. i like mike huckabee but no, i dont think hes even|going to be there.|i did. i did. no, i like him. well, hes left the race so i feel pretty good about that. hes a good man.|well, were adding some and were adding them pretty rapidly.|people in your world are saying they possibly could. so i dont really see one or two. i see there could be a number.|id love to finish first. you know, again it would still not be horrible because youre competing against a lot of very talented people that|have been politicians all their lives. i have been a politician for 6 months.|no, but id love to finish first.|wouldnt horrible but you know it wouldnt be the worst thing in the world. i could think of worse things. but id like to finish first. i|think we will finish first. id like to finish first.|just so you understand. i am totally self-funding my campaign other than small donations because people send in small donations for $10, $15, $20 |no, no, thats merchandise sales. thats a lot of merchandise sales.|its a small amount of money compared to what i put in.|its very hard when somebody sends you a check for $17.50 and $9 and $200, very hard to send that back.|i am. and i always make the reference. i always make a reference to that and i do it every time.|well, hes somebody that i respect, always liked. and hes very, very respected throughout the country but hes|very respected here. and everybody wanted his endorsement and im very honored that hes giving it to me and hes going to give it to me on|the stage.|that happens with endorsements. no, that happens with endorsement. its pretty common with endorsements.|a poll came out a few days before that said i was about 5 points so maybe there was a tinge.|and again, it may have been the debate, which would have set records if i did it. so i would have liked that. but the fact is it could have been the|debate. maybe it is. maybe it isnt. but i would have done it exactly the same way because i raised, scott, we raised in one hour, i raised $6|million for the vets. and i would never, ever give that up to go between first and second in iowa. wouldnt be worth it.|i think her email situation is very serious. i have a feeling shes being protected by the democrats because it just looks to me to be more serious|than anybody that ive seen including gen. petraeus.|if you watch and study and read about various lawyers you know, thats what they do they really feel shes in grave danger and what|shes done is against the law not just against rules. its against the law. i just dont know whats going to happen because i dont|know whether or not the democrats are going to protect her.|i never saw a race where theyre flipping coins. i mean, theyre flipping coins. what kind of a race is that? its ridiculous. i thought it|was terrible. i mean, you call it a tie. but to flip coins, they say "okay, youre going to get this district. were going to flip a coin."|i dont know. i cant tell you yet. i think hes certainly was dirty what he did to ben carson was terrible. he did|the voter violation form. i thought that was terrible. actually, i thought it was terrible. and when they said that ben carson was out of the race and|come vote for him, i thought that was terrible.|okay?|thank you everybody. thank you. thank you.|wow, what a crowd. thank you very much everybody. such an honor. with the snow coming down and its a little cold outside and you have hundreds of|people still outside trying to get in. but you know, we wont wait. well go ahead. right?|well go ahead.|first of all, congratulations to the iowa state basketball team. you had a what was that all about? i turned on the game. i said, "wow, this|shouldnt be that good of a game." and at the end of the game, i said, "who won?" yes? that was great and its a great achievement.|i also want to pay my respects to ben carson. they had a really bad accident. some of his staffers were hurt really bad. so i just want to pay my|respects to ben. hes a good guy a really good guy and his staffers and hopefully they get better. say a prayer for them. okay?|weve had an amazing time today. weve been all over iowa and were going to be here tomorrow. were going to be here so much youre|going to get so sick of me. youre going to say, "please, tell him to get out of here. tell him to leave. tell him to go."|but weve had an incredible time.|and you know it started really weve had really a pretty good week. the debate last week everybody watched the debate. and who knew|about these debates? i didnt know anything about the debates. and its been fun and its been interesting. and ive been treated|semi-fairly by the moderators. not 100%. some have been very fair actually, and some have been not so fair.|and you know, a lot of the press hasnt been very fair.|boy, look at the press back there. they must think theres a big event going happen today. wow, thats a lot of them its like the|academy awards.|but weve had an amazing its been an amazing experience and it started really on june 16th when we came down the escalator. we came down|that escalator and it was i said, "lets go" to my wife, whos been so supportive and so wonderful. i said, "lets go. were going|to make america great again. thats what were going to do."|and you know, its hard to do this because when you think of it ive never done it before. ive never been a politician. thank goodness but|ive never been a politician. ive always done jobs and put a lot of people to work. tens of thousands of people over the years.|and you know, i have thousands of hispanics that love me. the nevada poll just came out where im leading with hispanics, which i knew, i knew.|and we came out at that particular opening when i opened and said im going to run for president i gave up a lot. you know, gave up a lot of|different things including telling our friends at nbc no more apprentice. thats hard to do. you have a top show and you say, "im not doing it|anymore. im sorry." they wanted to do it so badly.|and steve burke, whos a fantastic executive, came up to my office and said "come on, donald. come on. do it. youre not going to run. do it. do|it." i said, "steve, im going to run." i was pretty sure. you know, that was about two months before. i was pretty sure. it really is a tough thing|to do.|you know, all my life ive heard "if youre a very successful person, youll never run for president. youll never really run for|politics. but youll never ever run for president."|and i built a great company and its a tremendous number. you saw the filings. the press was going to look so closely. it was like d-day when we put|those papers in.|you know, first thing i did i announced. they said, "oh, hes actually going to do it" because most of them said "hell never do it."|then when i signed thats when you sign your life away. and i signed that. they said, "whoa! he signed that. well, hell never file his|financials because maybe hes not as rich as everybody thinks."|and i filed the financials and they saw an unbelievable you didnt hear a thing about it. oh boy, were they looking. i mean, were they|looking. and almost 100 pages. the biggest report ever filed with the fec in terms of that. and it showed a company thats a phenomenal company with|some of the great assets, very little debt, tremendous cash flow. you know, the way its supposed to be. and its great.|and the reason i tell you that is because that is the kind of thinking we need now in the united states. we need that kind of thinking. we need that|whatever it is. we need a mentality thats going to you know, were at $19 trillion in debt. its going to be up to $21|trillion. you saw that horrible budget. horrible, horrible budget that was approved two weeks ago and thats going to lift it.|and so we went along and a lot of things have happened and then the polls came out which i love and new ones came out today and ill tell you right|now. you know, now that were at it. and they came out some brand new ones some beauties. and ones coming out i guess a big|ones coming out. i dont know exactly what it is but its got to be pretty good because i see the response.|i mean, even this with all the people still trying to come into this building. somebody said its a barn. this is a very nice barn actually. but|with all of the people still trying to come in, you see what it is.|and we do have something special in a couple of minutes. to me, its really special because its a person that i think is a spectacular person.|so its very special to me.|but then the polls came out and some of them as an example national polls 38% for trump, 20% for second. i wouldnt even names. right? i|wont even mention names. im going to be non-confrontational today for a change.|21% for the second. 11%. and then theyre all down. some of them are actually at 0% and 1%. i dont know.|jeb well, you know, jebs got one problem. he loves common core, meaning he wants your kids educated from washington, which is immediately no|good.|and his second problem is hes very weak on illegal immigration. remember, he said they come as an act of love. i said, "what? they come as an act|of love?"|so i think those are two very bad points frankly.|so south carolina just came out and thats 32% for trump, 18% for second, 11% for third. great.|florida leading by a lot 31%, 19%, 13%, and then all down in the dumps.|georgia just came out. i have 33%.|yeah, dont forget thats 33%. hard to believe. thats with 14 people, 15 people. i dont know when they took it but it was recent. 33%.|connecticut now, tom brady loves me and thats sort of like, you know, and i love tom brady by the way. 35% to 18% to 9% to 2%. you know, to|nothing.|maryland just came out. maryland great place 32% to 15% to 11% to 9% and then you know they sort of phase out.|you ever hear of a place called iowa? oh, i love this. were doing actually great. first of all, i have to tell you. you know, they never report it.|even cnn doesnt report it. cnn does a poll, probably spent millions, they never report their poll.|the cnn poll was 33% for trump, 20% for chris. nobody talks about it. nobody talks about it. they dont talk about it. they talk about cnn is|reporting other peoples polls. so, i call up. i say, "wait a minute. youre cnn. you spent a fortune on polls and you dont report your own|polls because im winning by a lot." and they have no excuse but they keep reporting other polls. but were doing well. i think were doing|a lot better than anyone knows.|gravis just came out 34% for trump, 28% for cruz. ppp 28% for trump, 26% for cruz. in other words, its a little close here. quinnipiac poll|very respected 31% for trump, 29% for cruz. and then again cnn 33% to 20%.|so were i think were doing good. i think were actually doing better than the polls.|now, i could do this. i could say, "well, i just want to do well in iowa." i want to win iowa, folks. because look, i love the people. the evangelicals|have been phenomenal. im doing great with the evangelicals but nationwide im winning with evangelical i dont know if you know that|by a lot nationwide.|with iowa, im doing really well with the evangelicals. were doing really well with the tea party. were doing well i mean, you hear|the numbers. i mean, these are the numbers.|but i actually think were doing even better than the polls. and you know, theres the thing that a lot of people said, you know, they call up,|"are you going to vote for trump? hes got very, very tough immigration policies. he wants to destroy obamacare and replace it with something a lot|better." im going to do that. okay?|but you know, a lot of people, theyll pick up the phone and theyll hear different things and theyll say, "uh, no ill vote for |" and then theyd get in the booth and they say, "trump is my man." there are a lot of people saying that were going to do a lot better. but|well see because feb. 1st you have to get to caucus, you have to go out. youve got to do it. otherwise, weve all wasted our time.|you know, one of the groups in maine and it was like incredible. we were in different places up in new england recently and new hampshire was amazing.|and the people are standing there. it was so cold. there was one little group of despite global warming you know, you hear about "it was so|cold." it was windchill below zero. and people were standing outside for hours trying to get in.|and then you hear the announcers. "well, will they show up to vote?" and i dont know much but i say like if people are going to stand out for four|hours in the cold or the heat because believe me they stood out in the heat during the summer and during the fall like you wouldnt believe in|tennessee, in texas where we had 21,000 people, no matter where we go we have these big crowds but theyll stand for hours and hours to get in. why|arent they going to go and vote? or in your case caucus? why arent they going to go and vote? its sort of an amazing thing. so we think|theyre going to really be why would somebody wait for hours for four hours and not going to take two minutes to vote?|now, yours is a little more complicated because the caucus system is a little bit different. its a very interesting system. but it is different.|heres what i have to say about iowa. its very important.|so you know theres a movement to move iowa to the back of the pack. okay? you know that. youll still see me but you wont see other|people. believe me. im loyal. to a fault im loyal.|but youre going to see. i give you my word. i win; theyre not touching iowa. this is an amazing tradition. no, seriously. this is an amazing|tradition. theyre not moving iowa back.|and theyre not moving new hampshire either because theyre talking about iowa, new hampshire. theyre not touching new hampshire.|so, were going to just keep it the way it is. it really is. its an amazing. first of all, youre amazing people. but all over the country|its a movement all over the country. the people are incredible. they want to make america great again. theyre going to do something thats|special.|and you know we used to talk silent majority? i say its the noisy majority because its actually a noisy majority. its not a silent|majority.|but people are fed up.|so i started on june 16th and we did well. practically from the beginning we went up. and if you remember, we started at nothing. you know, we started|at nothing because nobody believed i was going to . even when they my wife said, "you know if you run, youre going to win." i said,|"what do you mean?" she said, "people dont believe youre going to run." at the polls. i was getting these little polls. i felt like some of|these guys now that are senators and governors; they get these little polls.|jeb again, right? boy, hes taking a lot of abuse. you know? i told him "you know what? you should use the name bush. whats wrong? use the|name bush. i mean, maybe its not working but its better than jeb right?" you know, i really do. get rid of the exclamation point and just put|jeb bush. its your name. dont be ashamed of your name.|so anyways, i wish him the best.|but, you know, i started and i started at like 2% or 3% and then it went to 6% and then it went to 9%. and each time the pundits these real|geniuses back here some of them are sitting back here these real geniuses like george will with the little glasses take away the|glasses. he looks like a dumb guy, im telling you.|but each time these geniuses would say, "well, hes reached his plateau. hes plateaued" at 6%, right? then it goes to 11%. "well, you know,|this is surprising but hes reached his plateau." and then it goes to 18%. and then it went to 22%, 24%, 28%, then it went to 32%. then it went|actually 42% in the gravis poll and in reuters we got to 42% and even a little above that. and then all of a sudden you didnt hear so much about|the plateau.|i want to plateau at 42%. you know, 42% with like 14 people thats pretty good.|but they kept saying, "hes plateaued. thats all hell get. hes got these followers."|we have the smartest followers there are. number one, we have the smartest. and the hardest working followers. we have people that love the country more|than anybody and they want to take back whats happened because our country is going to hell.|we can be nice about it. we can say it nice and soft. our country is going to hell.|when you look at this crazy iran deal where were paying $150 billion and they give us the five back but they dont know where the fifth is and|you understand what that means. thats not a good sign. but they give us five people but they get seven and they get 14 off the interpol. these are|bad dudes. they get 14 plus seven so theyre getting 21 people. and they have the right to do whatever they want from an enterprise standpoint.|right to do oil. right to do whatever they want.|but what do they also get out of that deal? first of all, theyre going to get nuclear. they dont have to develop nuclear missiles. they can|buy them. for the kind of money we gave them, theyre going to buy them. why are they going to develop?|remember the deal? 24 days. they have 24 days for inspection period. they also have self-inspection. right? but we paid $150 billion. and i always say,|"wow. what a great the persians are great negotiators." i say what a great deal that is.|two weeks ago i started. i said, "wait a minute. thats not a good deal compared to the other deal." they took over iraq. we gave them iraq. we|knocked the hell out of iraq. we decimated their armed forces. and you know, for years, they would fight. for many, many years, for decades theyd|fight, fight, fight. nobody would win. fight. theyd rest. then theyd go back to fight.|and now, we gave them the second largest oil reserves in the world, which is iraq. we gave it to them. now, theyre going into yemen. and if you|look at yemen, take a look. theyre going to get syria. theyre going to get yemen.|unless, you know, trust me a lot of good things are going to happen if i get in. but lets just sort of leave it the way it is.|they get syria. they get yemen. now, they didnt want yemen. but did you ever see the border between yemen and saudi arabia? they want saudi arabia.|so, what are they going to have? theyre going to have iraq. theyre going to have iran. theyre going to have iraq. theyre going to|have yemen. theyre going to have syria. theyre going to have everything. theyre going to be a monster. weve created this. we have|stupid leadership. really stupid leadership.|so when i started, i said we have to do something about it. its not something i wanted to do. its something we have to do.|because im representing you. im not taking any money. im not, you know, like some of these guys where theyre getting millions and|millions of dollars from people i know and theyre nice people and some are very bad people but they have no interest in the country. they have|interests in their company or they have interests in countries theyre representing.|and these people and these politicians are going to do exactly as theyre told by their lobbyists, their special interests, and their donors.|me, im going to do the right thing.|and i always tell the story. when ford moves to mexico, im going to talk them out of it. when nabisco moves its plant from chicago to mexico,|im going to talk them out of it. believe me. its going to be easy. its going to be easy.|so, i started and i talked about the border. very strong on immigration and illegal immigration. took a lot of heat. but you wouldnt even be|talking about that subject if i didnt bring it up.|and i talked about again i talked about isis and i talked about. but what really happened is after paris we had 130 people killed.|and by the way, i told you common core is dead and second amendment is right this way. were going to protect the second amendment. were going|to protect the guns. were going to protect your guns.|you know, if in paris and if in los angeles, we had the two maniacs that were married. she came on a fiancee permit you know, wonderful fiancee. she|was totally radicalized. maybe radicalized him. maybe he was already that way. but weve got to start thinking. we have to start using our head. bad|stuff is happening. we have to find out whats going on.|we have a president who wont even talk about the term. if you think, he wont even mention anything to do with what we all know is going on.|and you cant solve the problem if you dont talk about it. you have to talk about it.|so, very, very strongly we started talking about that. and then after paris and by the way, if we had a couple of you and you and you and you, if|we had three or four people in that room in paris as an example where they have the toughest gun laws like in the world. you cant have a gun unless|youre bad guy, you bought a gun. and they walked in just said "boom! boom! boom! you, move over. boom!" killed 130, more to follow because there|are people that are so badly wounded.|but if we had a couple of few of the people that i pointed out i could plenty in this audience, believe me. but if they had guns on their|waist, if they had guns around their ankle where the bullets went the opposite direction, it would have been a whole different story, folks. itd be|a whole different story.|so very, very big on the second amendment. but what happened is all of a sudden after paris and to an extent, to a pretty big extent in california, what|happened is these polls started coming in where everybody liked trump even more. i went up 11 points. i dont want to do it for that reason.|but it went up because people want strength just like having the family of john wayne, who was great. i love john wayne. from iowa. but out of nowhere i|got the most beautiful letter from his daughter, who you just met, whos an incredible woman, and she said, "wed like to endorse you."|john wayne was a strong guy. we need strength. we need strength in this country because were withering away with political correctness nonsense.|okay? nonsense.|i mean, if you think of it, you cant say "merry christmas" anymore. were going to say "merry christmas" again. you go into these department|stores. they dont have any christmas displays. they dont have the sign "merry christmas". even people that arent christian are saying|"merry christmas. we love christmas. let us say merry christmas, happy holidays." but people like to see it. and stores dont put it up|anymore. were withering away. were going in the wrong direction.|so i said were going to do this and i had no idea it was going to work this way. i figured id be in the pack and maybe like a race horse. you|know, just at the end you can sort of inch it out. i had no idea to have 21 point leads nationally. were up by so much. and you know, i want to|keep it that way. i want to keep it that way.|when you think and just one thing before i introduce our incredible person, our incredible guest. but one thing ive spent to this point|almost nothing and im in first place by a lot. i tell this story. im not bragging about spending. im just saying im telling the|story. i have spent theyll tell you almost nothing and im in first place by some polls have me 21 points. thats a lot. okay?|you know some people have 2%. i have a lead of 20%. but im in first place by a lot.|jeb has spent now $77 million. think of it.|and you know the reason i bring him up i wouldnt even bring him up but he spends a fortune on ads against me. you people have all seen|it before|i got along with everybody. i contributed to everybody. i was a world class businessman. now im a politician, which id hate to tell you. but|you go with everybody. you want to love everybody. you want them all to love you unless youre stupid. but you want everybody to love you.|everybody knows this story. but so much money has been spent on me. but he spent $79 million. i spend nothing. im in first by a lot. hes down|towards the bottom of the pack.|and i said to myself, "its amazing. wouldnt that be great if this were the country doing this?"|as an example, education. were number 28 in the world. we have third world countries that are ahead of us. education is very important to me.|world, i mean, countries that you wouldnt believe are ahead of us. you wouldnt believe if you heard the names of some of these countries. so|were 28. but were number one in spending per pupil by far.|wouldnt it be nice if you had like this election process where we spent the least but we had the best education? you know?|so sweden and norway and china and others are the best. were nowhere near them and yet we spend far more per pupil. so were going to change|that and i told you were going to get it localized but were going to change that. watch, you just watch |i will tell you this: you cant educate your children through bureaucrats in washington. and thats what happens with common core.|when the parents take over and i really mean this because ive seen it. when the parents surround those schools and they love those kids and they|love those pupils and even when their kids graduate, they are committed to those schools, theyre committed to education. you can do so much better|in iowa than they can possibly do telling you what to do in washington.|and not all of them but most of them are just interested in "wheres my check? how much do i get? lets make the process complicated."|and some of the things that your kids are made to study are an outrage. okay? so were going to bring that back locally and its going to be|great.|so what happened essentially is i started looking and all of a sudden things changed. and people are now looking. they know ill do great with|china. im going to do great with japan. im going to do great with mexico, whos killing us in trade and killing us also at the border.|we will build a wall and you know whos going to pay for the wall mexico. theyre going to pay for it because they make a fortune and all|of those things.|but now, were really focused on security and im honored because i will tell you that all of polls and the cnn polls where said in particular|that trump is just not by a little bit but by many, many percentage points winning on isis, winning on the military, winning with the vets. were|going to take care of our vets big league, by the way. big league. big league. and were going to really take care of our military. its going|to be big and strong and powerful and nobodys going to mess with us and its the cheapest thing we can do, ill tell you that right now.|so its been a real focus.|i just want to now say just a couple of words about a very special person. this is a person who ive known for a long time, who ive respected|for so long. an incredible husband. an incredible family. and somebody that when i heard that she was going to endorse me, i was so honored. you have no|idea how honored.|and i would like to bring up if i might gov. sarah palin. special, special person. thank you.|let me just tell you let me just tell you a little secret. its the cheapest thing we can do. were never going to have to use it.|i dont think were going to have to use it. dont forget they talk about my tone. i remember when jeb and hillary the same day mr.|trumps tone is not nice. theyre chopping off christians heads in syria and other places and they want me to have a nice tone. im|supposed to be, oh, isnt life wonderful, ok?|look, weve got to be tough, weve got to be smart, weve got to have heart too. weve got to have heart, weve got to take care of|people. weve got to fix our health care program. this obamacare is a disaster. you people know.|you people know. obamacare is a total catastrophe. its going to be repealed and replaced. it will die in 17 anyway. i dont know if you|heard whats happening. but its so bad, all the people that they didnt think were signing up are signing up.|and the other people that are really paying for it are not signing up. and your rates are going up 25 percent, 35 percent, 45 percent. your deductibles|are so high that unless you get hit by a tractor, youre never going to be able to use your deductible. youre never going to be able to use it.|so obamacare is a disaster. we are going to repeal it, we are going to replace it.|there are so many great things we can do on health care. so many good things.|wow. thank you. thank you so much. thank you.|we start by paying our great respects to pearl harbor.|we dont want that stuff. we dont want world trade centers. we dont want that ever happen to us again. its not going to happen to us|again.|so i want to thank everybody for being here. its a great honor.|they have thousands of people outside and sometimes theyll say "would you like to wait about an hour until they all come in?" but we cant get|them in anyways so what difference there. we all got lucky. were together tonight. thank you.|so we have a lot of big news today. to me, very big was cnn just came out with a new poll about an hour ago and iowa great, great state and|in iowa, trump 33%. beating everybody by a lot. you have cruz at 20% and carson at 16% and going down and rubio at 11% and bush at 4%. but its|trump at 33%. it just came out. its iowa we love iowa.|by the way, great ship named after iowa too. ive been on that one too. a really great one.|the other big poll that came out just two days ago was the national poll. trump 36% and then i wont even mention the other numbers because|theyre so low.|you know, when you have so many people running we had 17 and then they started to drop. ding. bing. i love it. i love it. and youll be losing|a lot over the next little while. i would imagine. i dont know. when somebodys down at zero i would think that eventually theyll drop|out. the only difference is theres nothing to pick up if there is zero. what do you pick up? so anyways youll be seeing that.|one of the things i think thats so important because to me very important in the same poll, which is the big national cnn poll, on the economy|so important trump 55%. everyone else nothing.|on the budget im really good at these things economy, budgets. i sort of expected this. on the budget, trump this is with 15|people remaining trump 51%. everyone else bing.|oh, heres one that i started and i took a lot of heat. i took a lot of heat. sort of like the one were talking about today. i guess youve|heard a little bit about it. but ive taken a lot of heat on this one. illegal immigration. now, had i not brought that up in trump tower in june|when i announced that i was going to run for president, which takes courage to run for president, believe me.|you know, all of my life, ive heard that if youre a successful person, especially if you have very success youve done a lot of|things, a lot of deals, a lot of everything, you cant run for president.|and yet, thats the kind of mindset and thinking this country needs.|were being run by people that dont know what theyre doing. very sad.|on illegal immigration, trump 48%. thats with 15 people. everyone else, no good.|on a thing called isisoh, dont worry. well have plenty well talk a lot about isis. can you believe it?|here we have generals. they go on television and talk. they do all talk. you people a lot of military people here. whos military here? all|right, i love you.|by the way, speaking of it, were going to make our military so strong, so powerful, so great, nobodys ever going to mess with us again.|nobody. theyre never going to mess with us.|you know in many ways, its the cheapest thing we can do. the cheapest thing. instead of fighting these wars that we dont know what were|doing and we have leaders that are afraid to do anything, were going to make it so great, so strong that people gosh, theyre not|messing. theyre not messing.|and were going to take care of our great vets, our wounded warriors. were going to take care of them. because they thank you, they are|not being taken care of.|we have illegal immigrants that are taken care of better than our incredible veterans and its not going to happen any longer. not going to happen.|not going to happen.|so with isis trump 46%. can you imagine that? with all of these characters running.|on foreign policy, trump way up. and you know, in theory you could say "well, maybe its not my thing." but people want to see strong, they want to|see strength, they want to see protection, they want to be protected. and thats it.|i watched last night and i watched the president truly that didnt know what he was doing. he didnt know why he was there. he refuses to use|the term "radical islamic terrorism". he refuses to use the term.|i dont even know if he knows what the hell is going on. i really dont.|and then were looking at hillary clinton. honestly, i know hillary. its just going to be an extension of obama. i think maybe worse.|shes got no strength. shes got no stamina. remember that.|you dont need a president with no strength or stamina when were being ripped off on trade, were being ripped off on obamacare, which is|going to be repealed and replaced by something really good.|when our soldiers arent being taken care of, when our military is never been like it is today.|one of the generals was on television, as usual, saying that were the least prepared now than anytime that hes ever seen it and hes been|there a long time retiring. thats how we are.|in the most dangerous world weve ever had because of the power of weapons, we have people that dont know they dont im|telling you. i watch them. i watch these generals being interviewed.|do you think gen. george patton would be interviewed?|theyd be interviewed after total and complete victory.|gen. douglas macarthur. theyre not big for interviews. you know, they shoot first, they talk later.|these guys and i dont think well have to.|you know, just so you understand, bush bush, he said yesterday he was being interviewed, he said that he was talking about me. he was saying the|nicest things about me. of course, he says hell be elected. hes at what 3%? right?|no, but he said some things and i was like i said "who says that about an opponent? you dont say those things." youll find out what he|said. but he said very nice things.|but, if you look at what happens where he is upset with me because he says the tone the tone of donald trump is not nice.|and i say it all the time. we have people whose heads are being chopped off in the middle east because theyre christian and for other reasons.|theyre being dumped and drowned in steel cages. and we talk about my tone.|hillary said the same thing. "mr. trumps tone is not nice."|these people are living in a different planet. different planet.|and remember what i said about hillary. we need somebody whos strong. we need somebody with incredible energy but incredible intelligence and all|of those things.|you know, i know a lot of tough people but theyre not smart. thats no good. theyre easy.|we need tough. we need smart. we need like every character. we are so far behind the eight ball in this country.|we owe $19 trillion. the budget they signed two weeks ago is going to make it $21 trillion. its a think of it. trillion. trillion. trillion|dollars. who the hell ever heard of the word 10 years ago? there was no such word.|we owe $21 trillion in the very near future. were really in trouble. we have to rebuild our country. we have to rebuild our infrastructure. we have|to rebuild our military.|and yet, we do deals with china where theres a trade imbalance of over $400 billion a year in their favor, by the way, in case you had any|question.|japan they send their cars by the millions. $70 billion a year imbalance. thats like a loss.|you look at mexico. were going to build a wall. it will be a real wall. it will be a real wall. gonna happen. its gonna happen.|the people im dealing with and you know, i really focus on hillary later because i have to get through these 15 people. you know, theres|15 of us.|i had perry came at me strong; he went down. i had gov. walker, nice guy, he went down. every guy that attacks me so far theyve all gone down.|weve got to keep it that way, right?|i mean, lindsey graham. hes at zero. hes at zero. zero.|let me ask you a question. i dont get lindsey graham. i dont get himhes literally at zero. you see him. and he keeps talking. he gets|so much television. i mean, hes on television all the time and he doesnt go up. hes at zero, folks.|his ideas are so bad. im more militaristic than him. but i know how to win; he doesnt. he just wants to attack everything. he doesnt know|where the hell ra ha.|and he always sits with john mccain. its like theyre the bobbsey twins. theyre always sitting together. no, its true. do you ever|notice? sometimes i want to see him by himself. hes always sitting with john mccain, whos fine. im not knocking it. but you got to know|what to do.|now me, i was against the war in iraq. so everyone says, you have the right temperament i have a great temperament. but youve got to attack.|if youve got to do something, youve got to know what youre doing.|i said if you attack iraq and you wipe it out, iran is going to take over the entire middle east because youre going to ruin the balance. it was so|simple to me.|and actually they sent a group from the white house to see me because i got so much publicity, so much publicity that they sent a group from the white|house to see mr. trump. i said, "fellas, youre going to have iran take over the middle east and thats whats happening."|and irans going to take over iraq as sure as youre sitting there.|and by the way, iraq, with the second largest oil reserves anywhere in the world. we lost of thousands of lives. we have wounded warriors all over the|place. $2 trillion. we have nothing. we got nothing. we have absolutely nothing. and we left.|and we have a president we shouldnt have been there but then we shouldnt have left the way we left.|you know, the funny thing is i look at democrats and liberals and conservatives and republicans wouldnt it be good all of us if we can get|together and really make our country great again? is that what we want to do?|ill bet you that if i spoke to that young woman, that quickly i really think i can convince her that were all in this together, folks. we want|to have a strong country. right?|but you know, if you think about it and youll have some that can never be satisfied no matter what. theyre just troublemakers, et cetera,|et cetera. but most people arent and they believe something. and i have some very smart friends dont agree with me; they agree with the other|side.|but i really believe that if you took it about making america great, we have to be strong, we have to be vigilant, and if were not vigilant|that was the same person. ive got to tell you, so far, the security is not doing a great job in here, ill|tell you that. that was the same person. you can do very nice but why dont you get her out because honestly its inappropriate. so security,|strengthen yourself up.|see, our country has this kind of security. thats the problem we havetreat her very nicely please but she should now be taken out. same person.|one person. its one person. they let her out. they gave her a second chance and the same thing happens.|but you would think that everybody were all on the same basket that everybody every single person |so you would think that if we could get together, wed all be in the same boat.|now, last night we all saw and we witnessed something that i thought was highly inappropriate.|in fact, i tweeted "is that all there is?" about the presidents speech and i wrote something today that i think is very, very salient, very|important, and probably not politically correct but i dont care. i dont care.|you know, we had a situation in california very recently where somebody was making bombs in an apartment. the mother saw them. the mother didnt|notice anything wrong. i watched the sister being interviewed. believe me, in my opinion, she was lying like crazy. i watched that interview. "oh, my|brother was such a wonderful guy. i didnt know, i didnt know, i didnt know."|and i watched the next door neighbor saying, "oh, well we didnt report them because we didnt want to racially profile or we didnt want to|profile." give me a break. give me a break.|were like the stupid country in so many different ways. its so can you imagine what our great leaders of the past would have said with|the kind of crap thats happening with us?|they didnt want to report them because they thought it was profiling.|okay, they saw bombs. they saw, you know, the pipe bombs only this wasnt to build a bathroom. when a bomb is this long, cant put too many of|them together for a bathroom, right? and we thought they maybe but we didnt want to racially profile. oh, okay, youre okay, youre|innocent.|or how about where the families and the girlfriends and the wives and everything and they go back to world trade center the worst, worse than|pearl harbor because with the world trade center they were killing innocent civilians. at least while it was a dirty, rotten sneak attack, at least they|werebut while it was an attack, at least it was military. but this was an attack on the world trade center.|so, whats happened is were out of control. we have no idea whos coming into our country. we have no idea if they love us or if they hate|us. we have no idea if they want to bomb us. we have no idea whats going on.|and then i looked at poll numbers and i dont mean polls where im winning; those numbers i like looking at. these numbers i hated to look at.|and its very, very sad.|ill go after some of the numbers. 25% of those polled and this was from the center for security policy very highly respected group of people|who i know actually.|this is people living in this country. 25% of those polled agreed that violence against americans is justified as muslims. 25%.|51% of the muslims living in this country by the way, i have friends that are muslims; theyre great people. but they know we have a problem.|they know we have a real problem. because somethings going on, and we cant put up with it, folks. we cant put up with it.|51% 51% highly respected number of polling groups want to be governed according to sharia. you know what sharia is.|so i wrote this out. the mainstream media wants to surrender the constitution. the mainstream media these people back here. theyre the worst.|they are so dishonest. no, no, theyre so dishonest. they are so dishonest.|i mean, i have one from nbc, a reporter from nbc, and actually another one from cbs, they actually in columbus, ohio, i had a tremendous crowd like|10,000 people. it was a love fest. it went on for a long time. everybody stayed right tis the end. i had one of the politicians kasich |who is just getting hes a horrible debaterhe made a statement that "oh, they left after 10 minutes." now, the press was there. they saw|it. nobody said it was a lie. it was a total lie. in fact, i had more people at the end than i had at the beginning. nobodys leaving. nobodys|leaving here except for the one person that was screaming.|so, we asked the press to report that it was a total lie and they didnt want to do that because its not their thing to do.|you know, we get the biggest crowds. they dont want to show this crowd tonight. theyre not going to show all the people outside trying to get|in. they dont do that. they have the cameras right in my face. i say fan the crowd just to show look at all the people over here. its a|record in the history of this ship. but they dont show it. they dont show it. no, no. and i say fan it and they never ever fan it. i say fan|the crowd and they never fan it. and yet, i guarantee you that that young woman that just got taken out after interrupting us three times, i guarantee|the cameras will be on her. i guarantee. its disgusting. disgusting.|and by the way, some of the medias terrific but most of it 70%, 75% is absolute dishonest, absolute scum. remember that. scum. scum.|theyre totally dishonest people.|i had one the other day where i finished the speech and they said "oh, trump was interrupted and he left early." i spoke for like 45, 50 minutes. i then|answered questions and then i went around, you know, everybody knew it was false.|amazingly, theres a media group that calls the media and the next day they did the most beautiful story about what a lie it was from nbc. shes|back there. little katie. shes back there. what a lie it was. no, what a lie katie tur what a lie it was from nbc to have written that.|it was a total lie. and they did a story where they i didnt know they had a group like this where they actually criticized the media. and|they said it was a total lie. and i loved it. i loved it. i loved it.|and then other people pick it up. you know its nbc so somebody picks it up. third rate reporter. remember that. third rate. third rate.|so i said here the mainstream media wants to surrender our constitution and our constitutional rights. and i dont want that. i want isis to|surrender. okay? i want isis to surrender. very simple.|its very simple. so heres what happened. its been a little controversial. its been a great day because the poll numbers are through|the roof. i like that.|but i have morei wish we could call is there any way we could call the election tomorrow? wouldnt you love that?|now theyre coming at us in full force. theyre coming not coming at me. theyre coming at all of us. theyre coming at all of us.|because you know, we have a noisy majority. they used to call it the quiet majority. people are fed up. theyre fed up with incompetence.|theyre fed up with stupid leaders. theyre fed up with stupid people.|they are fed up with stupid people, where our president makes a deal for sergeant bergdahl, a dirty, rotten, no good traitor who think of it. they|knew he was a traitor because a general and a colonel went to see his group. six people were killed looking for him. okay? six people were killed.|young. unbelievable. i watched the parents on television. ive seen the parents. but i watched the parents on television devastated, will never be|the same. they left to try to bring them back. he left. he deserted.|you know, in the old days when we were strong country it would be boom, gone. it was called desertion. now i heard the other day they wont even do|anything to him. can you believe it? they think hes going to get away with nothing. hes going to have nothing.|so he left. oh, they treated him pretty rough though. he got in there, he said, "i shouldnt have done this. this isnt working out the way i|thought."|anyways, so we get him back and heres the deal we made. we get a dirty, no good traitor. six people killedthey get five of their greatest|killers that theyve been after after think of it for six years. in fact, i hear nine years.|so they get these right now have gone theyre out in the battlefield, trying to kill everybody in front of them including you folks,|id hate to tell you.|so we get bergdahl and they get five of the killers that theyve wanted for many years. thats the way we do it.|the iran deal. we gave them $150 billion. its called amateur night. we gave them $150 billion. 24 days 24 days we think theres|something wrong, 24 days we have to wait but its much longer than that because theres a whole process before the clock starts ticking. so it|could be forever.|but the best is where they have the right to self-inspect. "are you doing nuclear weapons over there?" "oh, well inspect tomorrow." "oh no,|were not doing nuclear weapons."|you know, the persians are great negotiators. always have been. and somebody would say thats profiling. trust me, theyre great negotiators.|and kerry is a horrible negotiator and obama is a horrible negotiator. horrible. hes a horrible negotiator. these people are horrible.|i always obama would be a unifier. i never thought of him as being like a divider because i said "you know what? i dont think hes going to be|a good president."|i backed mccain; he lost by the way. and you know, i dont blame mccain for losing because a lot of bad things will happen; it was a tough one. but|i backed mccain; he lost. i backed romney; he should have won but he sort of went away on vacation or something the last month and he lost. and i said,|"this time im going to do it myself. were not going to lose." were not going to lose. were not losing.|and the recent fox poll that just came out has me beating hillary very easily one on one. i love that. thats so important.|so, we put out a statement today. we watched this. and its impossible to watch this gross incompetence but i watched last night.|and we put out a statement a little while ago and these people are going crazy|shall i read you the statement?|donald j. trump is calling for now, youve got to listen to this because this is pretty heavy stuff and its common sense and we have to|do it. remember the poll numbers. 25%, 51%. remember the poll numbers. so remember this. so listen.|donald j. trump is calling for a total and complete shutdown of muslims entering the united states until our countrys representatives can figure|out what the hell is going on.|we have no choice. we have no choice. we have no choice.|according to pew research, among others, there is a great hatred toward americans by large segments of the muslim population.|most recently, a poll from center for security policy released data showing 25% of those polled agreed that violence against americans these are|people that are here by the way, people that are here 25% not 1%. by the way, 1% would be unacceptable. 1% is unacceptable. 25% of those polled|agreed that violence against americans here in the united states is justified as part think of that as part of the global jihad.|they want to change your religion. i dont think so. i dont think so. i dont think so. not going to happen.|as part of the global jihad. and 51% of those polled agreed that muslims in america should have the choice of being governed according to sharia. you|know what sharia is. 51%.|sharia authorizes now look, this is, i mean, its terrible. sharia authorizes such atrocities as murders against non-believers who wont|convert, beheadings, and more unthinkable acts that pose great harm to americans especially women. i mean, you look especially women. tough stuff.|and we have a president that wont even mention the term and youre talking about numbers like this.|mr. trump stated without looking at the various polling data, its obvious to anybody the hatred is beyond comprehension|where the hatred comes from and why, well have to determine. well have to figure it out. we have to figure it out. we cant live like|this. its going to get worse and worse. youre going to have more world trade centers. its going to get worse and worse folks.|we could be politically correct and we can be stupid but its going to get worse and worse.|until we are able to determine and understand this problem and the dangerous threat it poses, our country cannot be the victim of horrendous attacks by|people that believe only in jihad.|these are people only believe in jihad. they dont want our system. they dont want our system and have no sense of reason or respect for human|life. they have no respect for human life.|so prior to paris, which was a disaster, which by the way if some of the people in those places where it was slaughter, absolute slaughter, had|guns, you wouldnt have had the carnage that you had in paris. you wouldnt had that carnage. if they had guns, you wouldnt had that|carnage.|so important the second amendment. we have to preserve it and cherish it. and we cant let these weak leaders diminish it.|if they had guns in paris, if five people in that room, paris and france has probably the toughest gun laws anywhere in the world and it was like target|practice. "come over here. boom! come over here. boom!" people are sitting by the hundreds and many others are going to be dying. theyre sitting in|the hospital in many cases waiting to die.|now, the same thing a few days ago in california. no guns. we didnt have guns. the bad guys had the guns.|and these young people and i tell the press youve got to stop calling them "masterminds" these are dirty, rotten scums. these|arent masterminds.|remember the guy in paris with the big dirty hat? remember the guy in paris the "mastermind". i was watching all the networks. i wont mention|who but some of them disgusted me. "the mastermind is on the loose."|and we have kids that are watching the internet and they want to be masterminds and then you wonder why do we lose all these kids they go over|there. theyre young. theyre impressionable. they go over there and they want to join isis.|and we have our anchors i think i got them mostly stopped. did you notice that? i dont hear it too much. but they say "the young mastermind".|oh, hes brilliant. young man, hes brilliant.|i dont even hes got a high iqin paris, i call him the guy with the dirty filthy hat. okay? not a smart guy. a dummy. puts people in there|mastermind bing, bing, bing, its like shooting everybody. youve got to be a mastermind.|so the press has to be responsible. theyre not being responsible because were losing a lot of people because of the internet.|and we have to do something. we have to go see bill gates and a lot of different people that really understand whats happening. we have to talk to|them. maybe in certain areas closing that internet up in some way.|somebody will "oh, freedom of speech, freedom of speech". these are foolish people. we have a lot of foolish people. we have a lot of foolish people.|weve got to maybe do something with the internet because they are recruiting by the thousands. theyre leaving our country. and then when they|come back, we take them back. "oh, come on back. where were you?" "i was fighting for isis." "oh, come on back. go home. enjoy yourself."|when they leave our country and they go to fight for isis or any of the other groups, they never come back. they never can come back. they never can|come back. they can never, ever, ever come back. its over.|how about that? and now that theyve become radicalized, theyre totally radicalized.|and how about the woman? she was in pakistan then saudi arabia. she comes in on an engagement deal and she radicalized the guy. probably a guy who|couldnt get women. i dont know what the hell his problem is. its probably the first women hes ever had. i dont know what was|going on. but he became radicalized quickly. notice how easy it is? he becomes radicalized and then they go on a spree.|folks, those days are over. those days are over. we have to be tough. we have to be smart. we have to be vigilant.|yes, we have to look at mosques and we have to respect mosques. but yes, we have to look at mosques. we have no choice. we have to see whats|happening because something is happening in there. man, theres anger. theres anger. and we have to know about it. we cant be these people|that are sitting back like in the world trade center, like so many different things.|we cant be people that knew what was going on two weeks ago in california, probably for months they knew what was going on and they didnt want|to tell anybody. we cant be that.|we have to be strong. when we see violations, you have to report those violations and quickly. dont worry about profiling. i promise i will defend|you from profiling. i promise.|so when i started this whole quest i mean, who knew it was going to turn into this? its been an amazing thing. no matter where i go, i have|tremendous crowds, packed crowds, packed.|we went to dallas 20,000 people in dallas. 25,000 people. mobile, alabama 35,000 people. here, every time i come to south carolina, every|time i go to north carolina, every time i go to iowa, new hampshire, virginia, wherever i go florida we have crowds that are maxed. the only|problem we have is the size of the room thousands of people outside trying to get in. usually i do a double. i go talk to them for a while, which|i wouldnt say i exactly love doing after the first one.|but there is an unbelievable love in these rooms all the same. i love you too. i love youthank you. thank you. i love you too.|theres an unbelievable love in all of these places oklahoma 20,000 people standing in a park on quick notice. theres an|unbelievable love. and theres an unbelievable love of the country. we want to see good things. we dont want to be bad people. we dont|want to be tough and nasty. we believe in the constitution more than anybody.|but we cant let people use and abuse our rights. we cant let people kill us. they want to kill us. they want to destroy us. we cant let|it happen. we just cant let it happen.|and i have a friend whos a very, very successful man, and i went to one event he came with me. we had 24,000 people. and this guys a|real tough cookie. hes a great financial guy. one of the guys id definitely use to negotiate with japan, china. believe me, youre going|to be in good shape when that happens. we wont have these characters.|you know, this whole thing with all of these guys. by the way, im the only one thats self-funding my campaign. everyone else is controlled.|only one. im the only one. only one.|im self-funding my campaign. and these other guys. you know, theyre getting millions and millions of dollars from people i know.|i have one guy came and wanted to give me a lot of money. i said, "honestly, i cant take it. i dont want to do." i cant take it, which is|very sort of like for me to not take money my whole life ive been taking money. now im sort of like what am i doing? but came in and i|said, "so what are you going to do? i dont want your money." and he said, "i got to go someplace else." theyre like gamblers. theyre like|gamblers. but i said, "you like me best." "i like you best but im going to go someplace else." because they want to be part they want to|let me tell you, who is more than me? i gave millions to these guys. nobody knows the system better than me. i knew it from the other side.|dont forget, i was the fair-haired boy. i was like the establishment. theyd all come to me, and id give them all money i write checks|sometimes to senators whatever the max bing, bing, bing.|i used to say "senators, dont come to my office. anybody thats a u.s. senator that calls me, well send you a campaign contribution."|but you know what? ill tell you something. in the end, the people that gives these millions of dollars to these horrible, corrupt pacs |theyre corrupt they totally control bush and rubio and i wont say cruz because hes been very nice to me. nah, hes been nice.|hes got to hit me first. once he hits me, i promise you. i promise you.|no, ive been nice to christie but he really hit me today. chris christie. i mean, i dont know. hes a friend of mine but hes not|doing well in the polls and he really, really hit me today. he hated this and yet he said anybody could come. youve got to look at some of the|statements from the past. but he really hit me on the whole thing that we have to stop the muslims until we find out whats going on.|does that make sense by the way? until we find out.|and he talked about thats inexperience and you know in other words he has experience right?|but thats the statement of an inexperienced manabout we have to stop people that want to kill us from coming in. does that sound like|inexperienced?|so chris, whos a friend of mine, he hit me hard. and i said i got to hit him at least once. so i wont do this a lot.|look, heres the story. the george washington bridge. he knew about it.|hey, how do you have breakfast with people everyday of your lives, theyre closing up the largest bridge in the world, the biggest in the united|states, traffic flowing during rush hour. people couldnt get across for 6, 7 hours. ambulances, fire trucks. theyre with him all the time|the people that did it.|they never said, "hey boss, were closing up the george washington bridge tonight." no, they never said that. theyre talking about the weather,|right?|he knew about it. he knew about it. totally knew about it. hes a got a very friendly group of people over there that they dont think so. but i|dont know. its called life. youve got to be smart in life.|i would say theres less than 1% chance. it could be but i doubt it. he knew about it. they didnt mention at one of their meetings? i think|they had breakfast like everyday or every other day. theyd just say, "chris, tonight were closing up the george washington bridge because the|mayor a certain area is against you." "oh, okay." they didnt mention? nobody believes that.|number two. nine downgrades of the state. nine downgrades. its a disaster. i have property over there the taxes are through ill|use an expression coming out of my ears, okay? tremendous taxes over there. you had nine downgrades.|you had christie, you know, so friendly with president obama during the flood.|i actually called. i said, "let me ask you. is he going to vote for obama?" i thought he was going to vote for obama. i dont know. i think he|possibly did.|and romney i was very disappointed. one of the reasons i was disappointed was he called christie and had dinner right after the election. if christie|did that to me, i would have never spoken to him again. i would have never done it.|so when chris talks about when he talks about lack of experience i built this incredible company. i filed papers where everyone said "wow,|that is unbelievable." i would have probably filed them even when i didnt run because i built a great, great company. tremendous cash. tremendous|assets. tremendous net worth. very little debt. unbelievable cash flow. and i filed.|everybody said "number one, he wont run." and i ran. i took a deep breath and i said, "lets go" to my wife and we came down that escalator.|right, the famous escalators. hopefully in many years that will be a very famous scene because we will have turned around our country and that will be a|positive note, okay?|but then they said, "oh, well he announced." so these talking heads most of whom are not even smart people, believe me. then theyd say well,|they went to ivy league college. so did i go to ivy league college. they went to this. most of them didnt go to ivy league colleges by the way but|they say theyre brilliant. ones brilliant because he wears glasses, you know? like perry. remember perry? we dont like him.|but what happens is they say "well, hell never file form a." thats basically where you sign your life away. i filed form a.|then they said, "well, hell never sign his financial statement because maybe hes not as rich as everybody thinks." then they said, "and if he|does, hell ask for many, many delays because youre entitled to 45 day delays, delays, and you can delay it until forever. and theyll|delay it until after the election."|i said, "no" so i filed it ahead of schedule. and what happened? remember? they went down. they couldnt believe it. it was much, much, much better|than anybody ever envisioned.|i built a great company and the reason honestly worth billions and billions of dollars. remember that low debt, great cash flow, and the|greatest assets doral, trump tower, the trump building, big chunk of the bank of america building in san francisco, 1290 ave., land all over, land|on the potomac, land all over.|in north carolina, i have a great piece of property. trump national golf club. some of you know it. great, right at the best location.|and what happens? what happens? so i filed and everyone said "oh, i cant believe it."|then they said "well, maybe he wont do so well with the polls." and you know, before i went, people never believed i was going to run. they never|thought i was going to run.|and i told the story the other night for really the first real time. but my wife said to me "you know if you run you will win. dont you?" shes|very smart.|i said, "what do you mean?" she said, "if you dont run, youre never going to poll before. nobody believes youre going to run." so if they|do polls like they did these early polls, they werent great before i announced. she said, "no, the only way youre going to get a poll number|is youve got to announce." nobody believes even though they say, even though they say youre running, it doesnt matter. nobody believes|youre running.|so i said, "all right." im getting these lousy early numbers and im saying, "i dont know. i dont want to run and find out it|doesnt work." i dont want to be embarrassed like lindsey graham and all these guys who have nothing. its true. its true.|so i said, "all right. lets take it."|so we go down on the escalator. you know what i did? you remember i took a deep breath because im telling you and you know what im talking|about the press down there look like the academy awards. there were so many cameras. i have never seen anything like it. the entire atrium of trump|tower was packed with cameras and press. and i just said, "lets go" to my wife.|i took a deep breath and i went down and i talked about lots of things, including illegal immigration.|and illegal immigration was such a big subject. and im telling you had i not brought it up, it has turned out to be and i took heat. i took|heat like nobody has ever taken heat. rush limbaugh said "the most incredible incoming that ive ever seen a human being endure". and then he|doubled down a week later because i was right.|and now, illegal immigration is one of the biggest things.|and then you had the killing of kate and the killing of jamiel and the killing recently in california of a 66-year-old think of it,|66-year-old veteran, female, raped, sodomized and killed by an illegal immigrant. and many, many more. its a huge problem.|and they take our jobs and a lot of other things.|so all of a sudden, everyones saying "wow"and from almost at the beginning, youve seen ive been at the top like from almost day one.|the reason i tell you certain things and the reason i talk about what ive done and lots of good things. a little thing wollman ice|skating rink. the city couldnt get it built for high years. they were in there for like $20 million. they couldnt get it done. i went to the|mayor of new york, i said, "ed koch, ill get it done real quick." he didnt like it because he didnt want to be shown up. i said ill|do it and if it costs more than $2 million ill pay for it. i got it built for peanuts. got it done in four months. and we had ice skating in|central park and i still run it.|i did another one i did a bigger version of that recently ferry point out in the bronx. they were having things have been under construction|from anywhere between 20 and 30 years. they couldnt get it done. i got it done under a year. its operating now. its very successful.|its what i do and thats what we need. thats what we need in our country.|im building on pennsylvania avenue an incredible hotel. one of the great hotels of the world. the old post office site. think of it. i got it in|the obama administration. everybody was bidding. everybody wanted it. one of the most sought after projects in the history of the gsa general|services. and i got it. can you imagine me getting it from the obama administration? because the gsa, who are really professionals, they want to make|sure number one that it got built. so they wanted strong financials. and they also wanted a great plan. so we came up with ivanka and my kids we came up|with this incredible plan. the job is under budget, ahead of schedule. it was going to open up in 17 sometime during the year 17. now,|its going to open probably in september of 16 right before the election on pennsylvania avenue.|and this is the kind of mindset you need.|carl icahn, one of the great businessmen, and others have endorsed me.|we have trillions and trillions of dollars offshore. pfizers leaving the united states.|in the old days, somebody would leave for, frankly, south carolina. theyd leave new york or florida or someplace where the taxes are lower.|theyd leave for north carolina. theyd leave today theyd leave this country for other countries.|so now, were losing pfizer. were losing many of our great companies.|we have $2.5 trillion offshore at least. and everybody agrees it should come home the democrats, the republicans. for three years, they cant|make a deal. they cant make a deal because theres such gridlock. theres no leadership in washington.|we will make this country so great. we have people and ill tell you something. ill tell you something said|something to me the other day and what i really want to do what we want to do or what i want to do is i want to|be the peoples president.|think of this, think of this, i dont work for any of the lobbyists. i dont work for any of these people that are leading our country in|the wrong direction. we dont.|the best thing that ive seen in going around and the thing that ive seen more than anything else is how smart the people are. they|dont believe those people in the back that write with fork. im telling you, they dont believe them. the people are really smart.|whats giving me more inspiration than any other single thing are the people that ive met the incredible people of this country.|were going to make america great again. and you know what? were going to make it greater, greater, than ever before. and i love you all and|thank you very much. south carolina. great. thank you! we love you. thank you!|thank you very much, everybody. you just like me because my daughter happens to be jewish. right? she has a great husband, jared, and ill tell you|what ivanka could not be happier and shes very proud. the only bad news, i cant get her on saturday. i call and i call. i cant speak to|my daughter anymore on saturdays. but thats okay.|its an honor to be with you. you know, ive devoted so much time over my life to israel, and the other politicians they can talk but believe me|they havent done what ive done. ive received many, many awards.|i was the grand marshal of the israeli day parade at a very dangerous time when people said, "dont do it. dont do it." i walked up fifth|avenue. im looking up for lots of trouble. but i said, "no way am i not going to do it." and it was a rough time as you know. it was 2004, and it|was a tremendously successful parade. maybe their most successful parade that they ever had.|so, im in a different position than the other candidates because im the one candidate i dont want any of your money; i want your support|but i dont want your money.|im self-funding my campaign. its been an amazing experience for me because i have very little money invested so far.|i thought by this time id have about 30 million in ads and i have none although i took a small radio commercial the other day in iowa. but we have|virtually no money in invested in ads or advertising. and i think you as business people will feel pretty good about this and respect it.|at first, i was embarassed by that. i said, "you know, i think were going to have spend money just to spend money" but its not really like a|good thing to do because i am in first place by a lot. its not even close. every single poll, every single state.|the numbers just came in three minutes ago in new hampshire the ppp poll trump at 27%, the next one is 13%, 10%, 9%, 8%, 5%, and the rest|are off the board. they have to drop out pretty soon i guess, right?|most of importantly, favorability no, i still like the top number the most but favorability is now at 50% to 39%, which is good, and i beat|hillary in the fox poll as you see very easily 46% to 41%. thats ultimately the most important.|and you know, ive been a tremendous fan and ive been a tremendous contributor. ive given a lot of money recently to hatzalah, $100,000,|emergency response. they do a fantastic job.|and my father, fred, was always a big supporter. so i grew up in that environment. i grew up in brooklyn, queens, and israel was always very paramount|in our mind.|in fact, ive been sometimes criticized because i received so many awards from jewish groups, and they look at my wall. its loaded up. but now|the christians are catching up, i have to tell you.|my christians are liking me a lot lately and theyve been great. they have been great.|so, obama is the worst thing thats ever happened to israel. the worst. the worst.|and when i see great friends of mine who are very, very pro-israel, very i mean, they love israel. they love it with passion, and theyre|having fundraisers for obama. i said, "what are you doing?"|and its almost like they answer me and they say, "we dont know. he comes to new york. we dont know. we dont know." i said hes a|disaster.|i really believe the iran deal. look, im a negotiator like you folks. were negotiators.|we dont build gas stations in the middle of, as you know, afghanistan for $43 million can you imagine this? a small gas station $43|million and then they used the wrong kind of terminal because they dont sell that type of gas. okay? $43 million for a gas station.|how many think they could have done it for less? would you raise your hands please?|but i look at obama, i look at that deal where we gave to iran $150 billion. they dont need to develop nuclear weapons; they can buy them. they can|buy them. its true. why do they have to develop them? they can buy them. we gave them $150 billion.|they go out and in terms of, you know, surveillance, they have the right to self-inspect. how about that? on their major, most dangerous they can|self-inspect.|were going to let them self-inspect. and then you have of course the 24 days and the 24 days were all good with contracts dont start|until such and such happens. it could be forever before you ever go into inspect.|and we dont even get our prisoners back.|and now they want to start a negotiation to get the prisoners back and they want 19 people for our three. they dont want to give us our four. you|know we have four. but they only want to talk three.|now, that should have been negotiated right at the beginning, three years ago.|and maybe better than any audience, i mean, the people in this room understand what im saying. it should have been you walk in by the way,|did you ever see a negotiation take so long? and we conceded on every single. we didnt win anything. we didnt win anything.|but that should have been with our prisoners day one, whatever it is years ago, we have to get our prisoners back. you dont want them. we|need them. it will make us look better. both everybody is going to like us more. with the american public, any deal that we strike, its going to|look good.|and you say that. we have to get our prisoners back. day one. theyre going to say, "no, were not giving." and were going to say, "bye|bye. bye! call us when youre ready." and then we go out and double up and triple up the sanctions. i guarantee you within 48 hours theyre|calling, begging us to come back to the table and you have your prisoners back. its so easy.|now, the president, you saw that, and john kerry, who is probably the worst negotiator ive ever seen. no, hes the worst negotiator ive|ever seen. he did not read the art of the deal, folks, i can tell you that. now, hes one of the few. hes one of the biggest selling of|all time business book of all time, he didnt read it. and obama definitely didnt read it. obama, ayeyeye. oh.|but they said this is hard to believe but this is what they said a lot of press back there so i have to say everything exactly correct|because if i dont i end up with a they said we didnt want to complicate the negotiations by asking for the prisoners. its really|complicated. we want our prisoners back. oh, so complicated. they said they didnt want to complicate so now, were going to end up making|a new deal probably at some point.|id tell you this, look ill just tell you this: if i win, before i take office, i guarantee you those prisoners are going to be back.|theyre going to be back, i guarantee you. theyre going to be back.|now, our president doesnt want to use the term we had another event, which probably was the one yesterday probably was related.|it always happens but it probably was. when i heard about it, i figured maybe not. but it turns out probably was related radical islamic|terrorism. and ill tell you what, we have a president that refuses to use the term. he refuses to say. theres something going on with him that|we dont know about.|now, as far as hillarys concerned, shes going to go with what he wants.|she shouldnt be allowed to run. what she did is criminal with the emails. she shouldnt be allowed to run.|shes going to have to follow his line because shes on a thread. you know, look, in real life, his attorney general, his u.s. attorney, his|attorney general. so his attorney general is going to listen to him in my opinion. i think its very dishonest whats going on with our|government.|gen. petraeus was given a life-changing sentence. other people have been sent to jail. petraeus was, you know, essentially look, i|dont want to get into it with the poor guy. what he went for nothing, compared to what she did for nothing, for 5% of what she did.|and obama, i mean, she cant go against him because only does boom she gets indicted. thats the end of it. thats the end of it.|so when you see hillary backing up virtually everything he says, and hes got control of her. i mean, its just total control.|but ill tell you what, she shouldnt be allowed to run. what she did was a criminal act.|and remember this, this is a six-year you have a six year statute of limitations. so shes fighting for her life. if she doesnt become|president, she could have a real problem. does that make any sense to anybody? does that make sense to anybody?|because what she did was just wrong. okay? and you know shes been involved in corruption her whole life, whether its whitewater. i mean, her|whole life is corruption.|she was a horrible secretary of state. she did a horrible job other than traveled a lot. she traveled a lot, nothing ever got done. the whole the|world blew up around her. it blew up.|500 to 600 calls and emails and everything from our ambassador asking for help and she didnt respond.|the truth is she doesnt have the strength or the energy. she responded to her friends. you know the friends were talking about. some of those|friends are, you know, sort of an interesting friend going on there.|but she responded yeah, you get that, right? a lot of people dont get that.|but she responded to a friend, but she doesnt respond to an ambassador thats asking for help. hundreds hundreds of requests and she|doesnt respond.|now, remember this, i go every night to someplace. i mean, yesterday i was in manassas, virginia, we had an unbelievable crowd.|the other day i was in florida, we had 12,000 people in sarasota at 12 p.m. with the football games going on. 12,000 people. the convention center held|5,000. so we had thousands outside. i made a speech outside. i made two speechesi said, "you cant get me a larger convention center so i can do|one speech?" my people said, "no, this is the biggest one. we set a record a big record. we set a record everywhere. we beat the record of elton|john. its true. elton john. im no longer competing with politicians. im competing with the musical talent.|one of the great musicians said "you get the largest crowds of any single human being on earth without a guitar" meaning who doesnt count on music.|so its true, weve had tremendous response. weve had incredible response.|i think you know if you look at whats going on and i think based on the response, based on the polls again i dont want your money|therefore youre probably not going to support me because stupidly you want to give money. trump doesnt want money therefore we cant |even though hes better than all these guys, even though hes going to do more for israel than anybody else, even though bibi netanyahu asked me|to do a commercial for him and i did and he won his race, so i was very happy about that. but he asked me to do a commercial. and they said i was the|only celebrity. i dont know if thats but they said im the only celebrity. i dont know. im not a celebrity. see now|im a politician. im so embarrassed by that term.|you know, my how life ive been a business, ive been a developer. ive employed tens of thousands of people over my lifetime. i have|unbelievable statements and unbelievable company.|a lot of people said, "oh, hell never file." this youll get a kick out of. "hell never run because hell never want to file various|papers. and then hell never file this and that and then youd have to sign your life away." the first paper we all know about first|papers. you sign your life away. thats the end of it. he did it.|then they said, "well, hell never sign and hell never file his financials because who knows, maybe hes not as rich as people think."|so i filed my financials almost 100 pages. the biggest ever filed by the federal elections. and everybody said, "oh my, its much bigger and|much stronger and holy mackeral, look at these numbers!"|if i didnt run, id probably would have filed anyways because you know i built a great company and i like to brag about it whenever|possible. its true.|some of the greatest assets doral, you know, doral and turnberry in scotland and trump tower and many buildings in manhattan. just many bank|of america building in san francisco with a great partner and so many other buildings and things|and the reason i bring that up is because thats the kind of thinking we need.|and i dont bring it up as braggadocio. i bring it up because thats the kind of thinking we need in this country to bring us back. we have|people that dont know the first thing about the word negotiation.|i can take anybody in this office, believe me, and theyre better than obama and theyre better than kerry and theyre better than the|foolish people the foolish people. its so embarrassing when you see what happens.|sergeant bergdahl, all right? sergeant bergdahl we get a traitor; they get five of the greatest killers that theyve wanted for nine years.|you know, the deal was five for one.|and they knew he was a traitor before we made the deal. you know about sergeant bergdahl. he deserted. six people were killed trying to get him back.|they were looking for him.|the general and the colonel went to see all those people, they said, "no, he deserted. he was a traitor." and we still made the deal.|so we get a traitor. we can give him back. do you want to re-negotiate deals? some of us will re-negotiate deals. i would say about 99.9 is there|anybody that doesnt re-negotiate deals in this room? this room negotiates so i want to re-negotiate perhaps more than any room than ive|ever spoken. maybe more. its okay. ive been called on that a couple of times too.|but the fact is i want to renegotiate that deal. i want to drop him right smack in the middle of where he came from. the hell they can have him|even if we dont get the five guys back because thats not going to happen because you know where they are right now? theyre right now all|in the battlefield fighting us and trying to kill us and kill anybody that gets in.|so they get their five guys that theyve wanted for nine years theyve wanted them and we get a dirty rotten traitor. but thats the way our|people negotiate. theyre stupid people. okay? theyre stupid people.|its very sad. its very sad.|so ill just tell you that im going to win. i am. im going to win. i mean, unless something happens, you know, walk across the street, the|wrong thing happens. but ill tell you what, i have a great secret service. heres a nice one, youre number one, they give you a secret|service. i never saw so many people talented people, great people.|but i believe im going to win. i really have just a great feeling about it. and you know, my life has been about winning. ive won, and my life|has been about winning, and thats what i want to do for the country.|and if people say about my company and deals and you can do this deal or that deal, i have no interest.|its like the other day ivanka, shes doing so great. "dad, we can buy this wonderful office building and i said, "honey, who cares? how|can you talk to me about such trivial things, ivanka?" its amazing. see? now im dealing in trillions. ive never heard of trillions|before. you know, with this we owe $19 trillion.|we just signed a budget thats so bad and the republicans you know, we know where the democrats are coming from. but these republican|politicians, they go to washington and theyre going to end obamacare, which im going to do by the way im ending, im|terminating, its going to be repealed and replaced with something much better. but they go to washington and theyre going to do this and|theyre going to do budgets like i heard the guy before "were going to work in the budget." its all about that. what happens is|theyre going to do budgets like were going to do this and that and i tell this story then they walk into the capitol building, which is|magnificent, and they look up "darling, oh my, look at those columns, look at the ceiling, look at the angels. oh, look at these magnificent floors."|theyve never seen anything like it. "weve arrived. this is incredible." and then they become mainstream. "well vote on obamacare. yes, i|vote." they dont want to leave. they lose all of their courage. i want to use a nice word because otherwise theyd get reported for foul|language. they lose all of their courage and theyve let us down. that wont happen with me.|so, again, youre not going to support me even though you know im the best thing that could ever happen to israel and ill be that. i know|why youre not going to support me and you know youre not going to support me because i dont want your money. isnt it crazy? no,|its true.|you know, if i wanted to have your money, i think id have a damn good chance and i think id get more money than anybody else.|do you know the money i have turned down? this has not been my life turning down money. guys want to give me millions.|i would have made poor jeb bush, i mean, this poor guy with his low energy. its sad. no, its sad.|i came up with that term, it became so defining. its like having it on his forehead "i am low energy". no, no, its sad.|he raised $125 million, which means hes controlled totally, totally controlled by the people that gave him the money.|thats why you dont want to give me money, okay? but thats okay. you want to control your own politician. thats fine. good. fine.|think about that, folks. dont worry about it.|i understand. hey, five months ago, i was with you. whos better than me? who is better than me? i gave $350,000 to the republican governors|association. i never even gotten a letter of thank you. its true. $350,000. i didnt receive one letter, not one letter from one governor.|stupid. the good thing is i dont give any why would i give any more? you dont get a thank you letter.|politicians remember this politicians forget, politicians generally arent competent, and the one thing they are good at is getting|elected and thats what youre going to end up having.|but i would love your support but i dont want your money. i appreciate it. now, lets take some questions. okay? good.|im going to go there right after this. i have to go through you know, you have to watch to make sure that the contractors arent|stealing and ripping you off and everything else.|but to show you how important this forum is and how important the country is to me and how important israel is to me, its so important, i dont|mention my projects. its not like very important to me anymore.|whats really important to me is the united states and making it great again.|my theme is make america great again. i mean, its taken off like crazy. the hats its going crazy.|but you know, some of these guys try to copy it but i had it trademarked because were smart.|a couple of them got up. no, you see, i was making this speech and everybody stood up make america great again but nobody stood up to them.|but we sent them a little notice dont use that term. were trademarked.|can you imagine i got the approval?|but we are were building a great hotel down the road. i hope you all stay and its going to be wonderful|so i was interviewed yesterday by a whole group of reporters from ap and they did a very good job. very fair story.|and one of the questions was about israel and the palestinians whats going to happen.|i said i used that as an example of some deals that are maybe the hardest deal ever in history to makecan we think of any deals? we all have|tough deals, right? you know, we have some good, some bad|but i said people are going to have to make sacrifices one way or the other.|i believe because im a dealmaker i believe that i can put both sides together.|but i said, itll take six months. at the end of six months and maybe sooner with us we have a deal instinct. a lot of us. and you can walk|into a room and you can almost tell like in two seconds whether or not youre going to make a deal.|i will know very quickly whether or not ill be able to put that deal together.|i used that in this interview as an example of perhaps the hardest deal in history to put together. theres probably no tougher deal.|if i could do that, it would make me so happy because theres so much violence, so much death, and just been going on for so many years.|now, i said you have to have a commitment to make it. i dont know that israel has the commitment to make it, and i dont know that the other|side has the commitment to make it.|with that being said, you know, i have a good chance of winning because you look at whats going on. so i have a good chance. i dont like to as|a dealmaker give away a lot of cards by talking about how i feel about this or that. id rather save it for that moment when you walk into the room.|i dont want one side or the other saying.|look, i think people know where i stand. but wouldnt it be great if they could make a deal? but a lasting deal, a real deal. not a phony deal|thats going to last a week and then bad things started happening again.|id love to and i will give it. you know obama, as you know he said it wont happen, meaning he gave up on this before it even started.|but i think it would be a great thing for israel i think it would be a great actually for both sides if a real deal could be made, and im|going to give it my best.|im a great dealmaker. thats what i do. i made a lot of money. im going to give it my best. it would be great if that deal could be made.|by the way, israel has given a lotand a lot of people dont know that. i think the public relations for israel hasnt been so great because|israels given a lot but hasnt been given a lot of credit for what theyve given|in fact, some things have been given which were unthinkable and a lot of turmoil it caused in israel. there were things given. but id like to go in|with a clean slate and just say lets go, everybodys even, we love everybody, and lets see if we could do something.|but i do think this and i do think right from the beginning and that one of the reasons im saying it now even though perhaps it comes back to|haunt me later on it has to be said that israel has given a lot. i dont know whether or not they want to go that far in a little step and you know|thats going to be up to them. but israel has not been given the credit that they deserve for what theyve done. i will say that. i will say|that. so thats it.|you know what i want to do? i want to wait until i meet with bibi. you know, im leaving for israel in a very short period of time. i know. i know|what youre saying. i just youre not going to be whos the wise guy?|do me a favor. just relax. okay? youll like me very much, believe me. okay? and you wonder why you get yourself in trouble. all right? youre|going to like me very much. its going to be fine.|but again, you cant go in with that if youre going to make a deal and you could make a great deal you cant go in with the|attitude were going to shove it down. youve got to go in and get it and do it and do it nicely so everyones happy. dont worry about|it. youre going to be very happy. okay? dont worry about it.|i think hes a very good man. i think hes been treated very badly. i think that our president has been unbelievably rude to bibi. i dont|know how many people like bibi. but i think hes been unbelievably rude.|and i mean, well talk about deals after the fact, which is a shame but i think the iran deal is the worst single thing.|perhaps itll go down and ive been pretty good at predicting things. i think its going to go down as the worst single thing|thats ever happened to israel. i think its a catastrophe for israel.|and i think the fact that obama was willing to make that deal for anybody that loves israel to support this guy or even the democratic party is|impossible to believe.|i think it will be one of the great catastrophes.|but if i get in, i will straighten it out, believe me. its going to be straightened out. its going to be straightened out tough and its|going to be straightened out fast.|the one bad thing is if i get in, the $150 billion is gone. that hurts me and that hurts the people of israel. but the $150 billion is gone because|itll be gone before you get there.|you know, were talking about a year and more actually. although the election very quick. you know, its coming up. its now less than a|year and you know we have the iowa starts on february 1st and then we go right down the line and its very exciting. were talking about a|couple of months now for it to start.|for a person like me, i mean, its very exciting.|well, i havent been working too much with the arab leaders, to be honest with you. okay?|you know, i told you i made commercials for bibi. i dont know if thats going to help me in the negotiation. i can tell you. you know, im|trying to keep it nice and level, right? then i get people screaming at me. but im trying to keep it as level as possible but i for the most part|dont know.|the king of jordan seems like a nice man. i mean, i dont know. were going to see. a lot of people like him; some people dont.|but i think i will probably be able what my history you know, i took some heat because i get along with democrats, i get along with|liberals, i get along with conservatives, i get along with republicans. i get along with everybody. thats what i was im a|businessperson. i get along with everybody. we have to get along with everybody.|and i took some heat and i always explained that. i said, "wait a minute, im a businessperson. ive got to get along with everybody." i live in|manhattan. its all democrat. i mean, its virtually all republicans dont even run people for the most part and if they do they get|5%. you know, they get a very small percentage of the vote. got to get along with everybody.|i think thats going to be a tremendous asset because right now we have gridlock in washington. we have people that they dont talk.|you know, i remember that years ago because ive been a very political person on the other side but always very political.|but years ago, the republicans and the democrats they used to like each other. theyd get along. theyd have dinner together. theyd|argue and theyd fight and theyd disagree and would have, you know, different views and things.|but in the evening, theyd go out and theyd have dinner together with their families. you dont see that anymore.|theres total hatred and theres total gridlock.|ill give you one point, which i think is important. corporate inversions. right? so you have companies leaving the united states and theyre|leaving because of better taxes and better a lot of things. a lot of things are better. but theyre leaving. pfizer. how good is pfizer? thousands|and thousands of jobs are going to be lost.|but theyre also leaving because we have $2.5 trillion at least i think its a much higher number than that. $2.5 trillion |thats out of the country that these companies cant get back because of bureaucracy and horrible trade agreements but because the taxes are too|high. theyre so onerous that nobody in this room would agree to pay that much money to get your money out.|so they leave it over there and they actually take the company and they move the company to the money because thats how much money.|the republicans and the democrats totally agree that the money should come back. for three years they cant get a deal. theres no leadership.|its gridlock.|theres an example of something where everybody agrees all the people that you see up here they all agree but they cant get it done|because theyre politicians. theyre all talk; theyre no action.|so theres something and its so important. its not like something where they dont get like theres big disputes and we|understand that. this is something everybody agrees the money should pour into this country and we should use the money and all the things |taxes paid.|but they agree and they cant get it doen because of gridlock and incompetent leadership.|you know, honestly, i dont think anybody can say. she says she is. but now she says all of a sudden maybe less so than you thought because|shes going very, very far over to the other side.|i mean, bernie sanders has brought her to positions that she didnt want to be at. you look at some of the things that shes saying right now.|but ill tell you what, whether she is or not, she doesnt have the strength or the energy to help israel. im telling you she doesnt.|but just take a look. shell come out and do an event and you dont see her for another four days, three days, five days. no, its true.|think of it. we dont need some people say its not nice to say. she doesnt have the strength or the energy.|israel needs more than just our support. they need strength. they need real power behind them.|because you know, you look at as these countries fall over there, israels looking more and more you know, israel has some difficulties.|and one thing and i think youll all admit it. these people are fighting really dirty but they fight a lot better than we used to think. right? we|used to think "oh, that was easy."|15 years ago with my friends from israel because i have a lot of friends from israel, they used to smile and laugh "oh, dont worry about it." now|theyre saying, "these guys are theyre dirty fighters." and theyre not bad. you know, theyre tough. theyre not the jv.|okay? obama said theyre the jv. theyre not the jv folks.|we need tough. we need general george patton. we need general macarthur. we dont need the guys we have. i see them on television generals. i|dont want my generals on television saying "well, isis is very tough."|i saw a guy the other day. isis is very tough. i dont know. i dont need that.|do you think general george patton they dont like him because he was a foul mouth vicious horrible brilliant guy. so he would never make it.|they probably would have had him thrown out years ago.|but we need patton. we need a genius like macarthur.|and we have those people. we have those people. ill find that person.|but were going to knock the crap out of them, ill tell you what. were going to win. were going to win. were going to win.|well, i think radical islam right now is, and i feel thats the greatest. and again, we have a president who refuses to use the term.|but radical islam is ill tell you one thing i know isnt is global warming. thats the one thingi know isnt.|i mean, we have a guy that just the other day who said here they want to blow everything this is right after paris. they want to blow our|cities up. they want to destroy our civilization, and hes worried about global warming, which a lot of people think is a hoax.|by the way, i won so many environmental awards shockingly. no, its true.|and you know what i want to do? i want really immaculate air. i want clean, crystal water. i want a lot of things. okay? i want a lot of things.|but global warming you noticed they changed the name they go global warming, they go climate change, they go now i hear a lot of|extreme weather. how can you miss with extreme weather, right? if its cold, its okay. if its hot, its okay. if its windy, if|its hot everything is extreme. so now they use extreme weather. it is a disgrace whats going on.|and to have this man embarrass us by standing up and saying that global warming is our biggest threat, we got to get him out so fast and thank goodness|we only have a year left.|thank you. thank you very much everybody.|its a great honor. i want to thank simon and schuster, one of the most magnificent publishers. for years and years, ive heard about simon|and schusters being a fabulous i was going to say the rolls-royce, i was going to say the harvard or the yale, but they really are a great|one. and i want to thank you very much. youve given us such tremendous support.|and we did this quickly and i think we did it very effectively. its been an incredible experience.|we wrote a book and the title "crippled america" is very tough but unfortunately we have to do what we have to do and i think one of the|reasons weve been doing so well in the campaign is because we tell it like it is. we tell the truth.|and america is crippled. we owe $17 and now $18 and now its actually very soon going to be $19 trillion in debt.|we have a military that doesnt have proper instruction from leadership. we dont know what were doing. were losing all over the world|with trade deals. every country, no matter what country you talk about, you can just pick a name out of a hat, theyre beating us in trade.|and we cant go on like this any longer. its impossible to go on like this any longer.|i always mention as an example sergeant bergdahl, a traitor. we get sergeant bergdahl; they get five of the people they wanted and they wanted badly.|and thats not the way its going to work anymore.|so we write about it in the book. we tell lots of different stories of lots of different things. and i think its going to be very instructional,|very important.|to me, it was instructional.|when i did "the art of the deal", i think one of the reasons it was so successful is that it was largely instructional. even today when i speak, so many|people hold up the book "the art of the deal" and the other books weve done.|so this is one that probably not since the art of the deal, i have to tell this to louise and simon and schuster, have i worked so hard on a book and it|was in a confined period of time. we wanted to get it out really, really quickly so that it pertain to whats going on right now. its a moment|of time. and we got it done.|and david did a fantastic joband all of my people did a great job. they helped me so much because we are doing a couple of other things right now.|so this was not easy getting this in.|but we see by the lines the lines go down to park avenue. theyve been forming since last night and im going to be signing books starting|at 12 p.m. were doing a couple of interviews and then were signing books starting at 12 p.m. and thatll be very exciting for me.|but we have fans that have bought the book and they just bought it and some have been online now for 12 and 14 hours. i dont know how theyre|doing this but they do it. they find a way.|so im looking forward to getting to the signings.|well, i think its a different book. you know, we just had polls come out today from iowa where im leading. you saw the new poll from iowa. you|saw the new poll in new hampshire where im leading big.|a poll just came out in florida where im leading big. georgia, texas. i mean, all over the place.|and i think you know look were doing well. and if you add ben and myself were beating everybody by a lot. that seems to be the big story that|were beating they call it the establishment. its called really the failed establishment because the establishment has let us down.|but i dont know. i dont know how his book is doing.|well, i think my book is very hard-hitting. his is a different kind of book and hes a different kind of a person. my book is very hard-hitting. it|says it like it is. and based on what simon and schusters just told me, its selling like hotcakes. so well see.|were very different people. we have very different qualities and we are extremely different. and im different from all of the other|candidates.|look, nobody can negotiate trade deals like me.|we are going to take the $400 billion a year that were losing with china, thats going to be turned around. the $75 billion a year that|were short on with japan.|the $50 billion a year that we lost to mexico. and thats right, there will be a wall built. it will go up. it will be built. and people will come|into the country legally.|so i mean, much different than youre look at marco rubio very, very weak on illegal immigration.|you look at ben and hes very weak on immigration and he wants to get rid of medicare. i mean, ben wants to get rid of medicare. you cant get|rid of medicare. itd be a horrible thing to get rid of. it actually works. you get rid of the fraud, waste, and abuse. it works. so when a man is|weak on immigration and wants to get rid of medicare, i dont know how he stays here.|no, i think that really marco is over-rated. and frankly had bush been a better messenger, he has the better message. i mean, if that was me delivering|that message it would have been a much different story because he hasnt been able to marco doesnt show up to the united states senate.|hes representing the people of florida, which by the way that poll just came out today and im way up in florida over everybody.|but marco is a sitting senator and he doesnt show up for the people of florida, and i dont think he should be doing that.|now, bush gave a very weak message. i agree with that. it was poorly delivered. but the facts are on bushs side and ultimately i think marcos|going to be hurt very badly.|and if you look at mr. singer, you have to see where mr. singer is coming from and when you see where hes coming from, i think people are going to|say, "whoa, we didnt know that."|but look at marcos stance on illegal immigration. its really trouble for him. i dont see how he can win.|marco rubios personal finances are discreditall you have to do is look at his credit card. i mean, he is a disaster with his credit cards. and|ill tell you what, i love florida. im in florida all the time. and for years, ive been hearing that his credit cards are disaster. i|would think that when you take a look at it, you would find that.|but his credit card debt and his problems with credit card and what he did when he was running the party apparatus with credit cards, ive heard|about it for years. youll have to find out.|well, he has a very bad record of finances if you look at what happened with his houses, with his you know, he certainly lives above his means.|theres no question about that.|ill tell you what. on the debates, its very interesting. because i dont really care that much. i want a room. i want a podium. and|lets get going. because i dont really care that much.|but a lot of the people that are candidates who i respect many of them, not all of them but i respect many of them, they felt it was very|unfair because hillary clinton was given all soft balls. i mean, she wasnt asked one tough question. they didnt talk about her foundation.|they didnt talk about any of the problems. they didnt talk about the emails. when the email problem came up, bernie sanders lost his whole|campaign. i mean, what he did was so stupid from his standpoint. in order to get a one-minute soundbite of some applause, he gave up the emails. that|was end of his campaign.|first of all, people arent going to his rallies anymore. hes finished.|so unless something happens to her with respect to the emails, shell easily be the candidate.|but i will say this: she only got softballs. thats all she got.|and if you look at the way we were treated, it wasnt the same way.|with that being said, i dont really care.|well, i think the republicans actually are doing a pretty good job overall. they coalesced at that last debate because i mean, it really started with|me. the guy asked me a question. i think harwood is probably finished as a credible reporter. hes a disaster. and he was it was such as|horribly put question and so obvious.|and the republicans coalesced around each other. it was actually pretty beautiful when you think about it.|and all we want to do is to be treated fairly.|but with me, i dont care that much. just give me a podium.|what i would say is this: the networks have made a fortune because of me, not because of anybody else.|you know, they were saying that the last cycle, they had 2 million and 1 million people and the networks didnt even want to broadcast it because|nobody watched. okay? nobody wanted to watch.|now, they have 25 million people, 24 million people, 23 million people and 16 million people. i mean, give me a break.|so somebody said, "how did they get there?"|and actually variety and hollywood reporter, who do report this stuff pretty well much better than the political press they said "solely for|one reason it was trump". ill take the credit.|but ill tell you what i also want. i think that wounded warriors and our veterans should be given some of the enormous profits being made on these|debates enormous profits by the way beyond anything theyve ever envisioned.|cnn was going to get $2,000 for a 30 second ad. they ended up getting $250,000. so they went from $2,000 to $250,000 for a 30 second ad.|the networks and the cable are making a fortune, and i think they should give some of the profits to the wounded warriors and the veterans. thats|what i want.|im giving them away. im giving the profits of my book im giving them away to a lot of different including the vets.|i have been amazing with respect to the hiring of women. this building was built as the head person who was fantastic by a woman and that was at a|time when you didnt see that in the construction trades. i mean, it was totally unique.|i have many, many executives upstairs and in different buildings that i have that are women. many a proportion thats close to 50%. might even|be over 50% if i analyze it. and they get paid a lot of money in many cases more than men doing the same job.|so women have always appreciated that about me. ive been in terms of employment really a standout and ive been honored for doing so well with|women.|what jeb bush was saying at the last debate? i dont know. but he didnt say it well.|i like telemundo by the way. i like it better than univision. im suing univision for $500 million.|because the country is doing so poorly. its a very accurate title because the country is doing so poorly.|thats good. theyre going to have some demonstrations. oh, good because itll get even higher ratings if they do that. i think its|fine. i think they should demonstrate. ratings will go even higher than they are going to be. its going to be one of the highest rated shows ever.|and theyre very excited about it.|and i have a great relationship, as you know from telemundo, with the hispanics. youve treated me actually very fairly. won the poll recently in|nevada. won other polls. and in nevada, i think i got 37% and leading everybody.|so i have a great relationship with the hispanics. i have working for me thousands right now thousands of hispanics. ive had tens of|thousands of people over the year working for me. im a job machine. im a job machine.|and one of the things that does come out in every single poll and every single survey is that nobody for the economy nobody is even close. im two,|three, and you see that two, three, four, five times greater than anybody else.|and youd almost say like its about the jobs, its about the economy. then hows anybody going to beat trump in all fairness?|but ive had a great relationship with the workers. ive had a great relationship with jobs. and ive had an amazing relationship with the|hispanics. and i predict that im going to win the hispanic vote.|i think im going to win the hispanic vote. i predict, yeah, i think im going to get the nomination and i will win the white house. i think|beating hillary clinton is going to be easy because her record is so bad.|thats the question i like. how am i preparing for my snl? well, im meeting with lorne michaels in a little while. afterwards, were going|to sign i guess got thousands of people on line but were going to sign and then later on this evening im meeting with lorne michaels and|the whole staff and well start the preparation. well pick our skits. am i nervous? not too nervous. not too nervous. but were going to do|a good job and were going have a fantastic show. were all going to have a lot of fun.|my jeb impression? no, i dont want to do that. i dont like showing a person sleeping at the podium.|tom is asking "can jeb make a comeback?" i think its going to be very hard. very hard. not about money. i just think you know, i came up with|the energy. and i just think we need tremendous energy because we need a person that has tremendous personal energy to get us back on track. you|cant do that when you dont have that.|i think marco is highly overrated. highly overrated. he doesnt have it and all you have to do is look at his stance on things.|jeb he lacks the quality that you need.|were talking about everybody in the world is ripping us off. you need a very strong person with tremendous energy. thank you very much folks,|ill take the job.|but and its so important. and by the way, ben carson does not have that energy.|we need somebody with tremendous energy to straighten out the military, to straighten out isis, to straighten out our horrible trade deals, to terminate|obamacare and come up with something far better for far less money. you need somebody with tremendous personal energy as president.|we have a president right now that doesnt have energy. i mean, you think obama has energy? he has no energy. and hes been a horrible|president.|we need somebody with great personal energy as a leader so that we can make great deals with other countries and do well in every other respect. and|certainly jeb does not have that energy in my opinion.|from the guardian. ah, they treat me very nicely in scotland. go ahead.|well, we just went over that. honestly, we just went over that. and its only going to make it harder.|youre going to see what were going to do. youre going to see. but the whole thing with anchor babies, i turned out to be right. a person|has a baby, lives in mexico or lives in asia or lives in many different place, has a baby, walks across the border, has the baby here. now, were|responsible for that person for the next 85 years. i dont think so.|and by the way, i was right, they were wrong. the 14th amendment does not give them clearance on that.|and if you wanted to do that in mexico or if you wanted to do that in almost any other country where you have a baby in that country and that country|has that person for 85 years including all of the costs of that person, they would laugh you right out of the country. you would be laughed out of the|country so fast.|so, that turned out i was 100% right. well have to worry about that. were going to take care of it, and its going to be done in a|very humane way.|but were going to bring back our country and were going to have a wall and mexicos going to pay for the wall and you know why theyre|going to pay? and i have great relationships with mexico and phenomenal relationships with the mexican people. phenomenal. and they buy apartments from|me; they work for me by the thousands by the thousands. phenomenal relationships.|but let me just tell you we lose so much money with mexico in terms of trade imbalance $45 billion last year. plus, we give mexico billions and|billions of dollars. they will pay for the wall. and it will be very interesting.|and you know what? people are going to come into this country but theyre going to come in legally.|a lot of european countries are going to build walls to stop the immigration.|well, walls work. all you have to do is ask israel. walls work if its properly constructed. not the walls that these characters, these politicians|that we have running our country who are a disgrace all talk, no action politicians they build a wall this big, they drive cars right|through it.|walls work. all you have to do is go and see israel. they will tell you that walls work.|we need pomp and circumstance. our country has no spirit. our country has no gravitas. our country doesnt feel good about itself. and the primary|reason is we have no victories. i mean, where have we had a victory? where have we had a victory in trade? where have we had a victory as an example|this horrible deal that was signed with iran where weve given them $150 billion and we lose everything. we lose everything. its a laughing|stock. worst deal. worst contract ive ever seen drawn.|we have no victories. and i do write about it. we need some pomp and circumstance. we need spirit. we need a cheerleader.|i thought seven years ago when obama got elected, the one thing i thought that he would be a great cheerleader for this country. hes not. hes|been a great divider for the country. hes been one of the great dividers of all time.|im not saying dress. it has nothing to do with dress. it has to do with the fact that what he says is very divisive. he has been a great divider|for this country, and that should not have happened.|ill go anyway they want. i dont care too much about the debates. look, im the one that gets all the nasty questions anyway. nobody|else gets the really nasty questions. in a certain way, maybe theyre defending me although i will tell you theyre not doing it for that|reason.|i think its irrelevant. i just i like the debates. ive had the debates. ive done well in the debates. as you know, every single|poll said i won all three debates. now, i dont know if i did or not but i certainly didnt do badly. but every single poll says even|cnbcs poll said i won the debate.|so i like the debates. i think theyre good for me. but we have to be treated a little bit fairly.|as an example, hillary clinton no tough questions. i mean, why didnt they ask about bill? why didnt they ask about all of the different|things. no tough questions. now, that was staged by the democrats. and frankly, they did a very smart thing in the way they staged it.|well, were going to stage something properly also.|but as far as im concerned, i really dont care that much. i just want a debate. i think debating is a good thing. its healthy. gets|everything into the open.|but you dont want people like harwood that read a question blah, blah, blah that he wrote that he carefully wrote. he thought he|was such his career in my opinion, his career is probably ruined or certainly threatened.|he could ask about anything you want. i mean, you have to ask about anything you want. hillary had only softballs. all night long. it was like this|"here, hillary, hit this one out of the park."|are you from russia? all right. i think our relationship with russia will be very good. vladimir putin was on 60 minutes with me three weeks ago. right?|putin. and they have one of the highest ratings theyve had in a long time. so im going to give him total credit. but we will have a very good|relationship i think with russia.|now, maybe we wont. but i believe we will have a very good relationship with russia. i believe that i will have a very good relationship with|putin.|sounds okay to me.|well, i think there are a lot of economic issues. we didnt talk about trade. we didnt talk about devaluations. right? we didnt talk about|corporate inversions, which by the way, none of the other candidates, they dont even know what it means.|but we didnt talk about corporate inversions where companies are leaving our country massive companies because they cant get their|money back and because they get lower taxes elsewhere. so theyre leaving and theyre taking their jobs with them.|the corporate inversion syndrome is a very important thing to be talking about.|these were all things that werent talked about at the debate. instead, they talked about fantasy football. i mean, it was a big question |fantasy football. im saying what about corporate inversions? $2.5 trillion at least. i think its probably twice that number is in other|countries wanting to come back and because our system is so corrupt and terrible, they cant get the money back to invest in this country.|so they dont talk about corporate inversions at the debates. they talk about fantasy football. those are the few.|i was against the war in iraq. you know, it was very early on. ill give it to you. yeah, i have it upstairs|well, you know, you have to understand, i was a developer. a lot of people didnt care about my view in 2003 and 2004. but there was a reuters|article taken from a magazine about my stance in 2004, i believe, in july of 2004 and it talked about my stance on how i felt about iraq. and i said|very strongly exactly what happened. i said you will destabilize the middle east and when you destabilize the middle east, iran will take over iraq.|thats exactly whats happening. and they will take over the oil reserves, which are among the largest in the world, and in addition other bad|things will happen. the other bad things are isis. i said that in 2004 and that was an article that was taken from a magazine which was previous to|that. ive felt that for a long time.|do i think that its time for some of the other republicans in the race that registering zero in a couple of places they have a zero with|an arrow pointing left, which i assume is a mistake because thats less than zero. i assume thats not happening. do i think its time to|have some of the other republican candidates drop out? yes. there are too many people. well, i dont want to get personal but you can look at the|poll numbers.|look, if a person is campaigning for four or five months and theyre at 0% or 1% or 2%, they should get out.|like, you know, look at me. i go to florida and look at the numbers that just came out in florida. 37%? georgia. i mean, those are real numbers. these|numbers that these people have and i often ask myself. i asked mark yesterday, "what are they doing? do they do this for their brand? because i|happen to think its very bad for their brand."|i think walker did a good thing. i think the way walker he saw it wasnt happening, wasnt going to happen and he just got out|quickly. you know, he was favored. dont forget. you know. that was before trump was going to happen. right? but he was favored for a period of|time. favored. walker. gov. walker. they thought he was going to win.|what happened is he got out.|i think the way he got out was great. i think he did a really smart thing for himself.|and frankly, other people should get out because i would like to personally have more time to talk about the problems of the united states and more|importantly how we can solve the problems. so its a great question. people should get out.|ivanka. oh, they just said one of the biggest applause lines its true i get is when i talk about my daughter ivanka. she was just at|fortune magazine for like something like woman of the year which is greatbut ivanka is going to be very involved and melania is going to be very|involved very soon. theyre going to be coming out very soon.|oh, ivanka is going to iowa. when are you going to iowa? very soon.|i would say i dont see threats. i mean, whatever it is i have to do. mark is saying "what are the top threats to your candidacy?" who knows?|i mean, youre in the crazy world of politics. people change their minds.|im going to make america great again. nobody else is going to be able to do that. im going to do it.|im going to make it in my opinion better than ever before, and i think thats awfully tough to compete with.|and one of the reasons that in my book i actually put financials in there i showed some of the developments that i have many, many more|because you can only simon and schuster you actually kept me to eight or nine pages. right? and there are four or five in a page. but i show|some of the great developments that i have done that are so successful and so incredible and so financially good, i show my financial statement from a|year and a half, two years ago. now its even better but we didnt have that certified yet.|so i do that not in a braggadocious way. i do that because thats the kind of thinking our country needs right now.|we are run by people that are incompetent. we are run by people who in so many words i hate to use the word stupid but you have to use that word.|unless they have bad intentions which i dont believe they do. but we are run by incompetent people. we have incompetent leadership.|there are so many things. like i mentioned corporate inversion. the democrats want the money to come back. who doesnt? the republicans want the|money to come back. for three years, the democrats have said we want the money to come back. for three years, the democrats and the republicans agree|100%. you have a vast majority. maybe everybody. for three years. guess what? they havent done anything. right? they cant even get along when|they agree.|so heres the thing where we can take trillions of dollars, bring it back to this country, rebuild big parts of our country with it, companies can|spend that money in our country, we have everybody agrees it should be done for years and they cant do it. thats a part of the problem.|well, youre going to look a lot of controversy with mr. singer. a lot of controversy with mr. singer. there are those people that probably|wouldnt have want him to back. but well see. ill talk to you.|no, they all agree. they all agree. they just didnt want to go through the unfair questions because they werent questions; they were|statements.|you see, they were asking they were giving statements in a sarcastic, disgusting way.|and by the way, i think becky is terrific and i think carl is terrific. but i think john harwood is not very good at what he does. but i think becky|quick is a terrific person. i think carl is a terrific person. but i will tell you john harwood was a disgrace to cnbc.|the question is should the fed raise rates? they are not raising them because obama has asked them not to raise them. in my opinion, he wants to get|out of office because we are in a bubble and when those rates are raised, a lot of bad things are going to happen or potentially going to happen. and in|my opinion, janet yellen is highly political and shes not raising rates for a very specific reason because obama told her not to because he wants|to be out playing golf in a year from now and he wants to be doing other things and he doesnt want to see a big bubble burst during his|administration. janet yellen should have raised the rates. shes not doing it because the obama administration and the president doesnt want|her to. and if she does it, you see what happens every time theres even a thought of raising them just a little bit.|and one of the problems that we have is our currency right now is not competitive with other currencies. because if you look at the devaluations of|china, of japan, of many, many different countries, theyre making it impossible for our companies to compete with them because we dont have|leaders that know how to say to china, "dont do that. dont do that. because if you do that, were going to put a big fat tax on you.|dont do that." and you know what? if you said that, they wouldnt do it. if you have the right messenger|im really focused on one very big election, one very important election, and there are some pretty good elections. im not watching any of them|in particular. ill be watching them on tuesday night. but ill be out there; well be out voting.|but the election that im watching is the election for the presidency of the united states. that is going to be in my opinion this will be truly one|of the most important elections weve ever had in this country. were so far behind. and we cannot go another four years with incompetent|leadership.|thats a good question. okay. so, simon and schuster came up to me. they wanted to do a book. they wanted to do on success and how do you do this|and how do you build it and thats what the book is largely about but we talked so much about the country. and i said, "ill do it but we have|to talk about the country."|what happened is they sent this incredible photographer up to do a book cover, do to a picture. and he did some greatphotos. im smiling.|im happy. i look good. everything was fine. and then he took one where i wasnt like really thinking about a photo and then it turned out to be|a nasty picture. and then the book was written and the title was given and the only really terrible picture i had was that one. its a terrible,|horrible, nasty picture. but when youre talking about "crippled america" and youre talking about all of the problems we have, i cant have|a big smiley face up there. so thats how we picked it. we picked the worst photo taken of me.|i would have loved to have a beautiful smiling picture but somehow that doesnt go with the title of the book or frankly the content of the book,|and actually simon and schuster agreed with me. okay?|are the other republicans afraid to debate? well, some of them should be.|thank you very much everybody. thank you.|i was telling some of the folks backstage, i never ever thought wed do this well this fast. this has been so incredible. whats happened|all over. whats happened in iowa. its been really incredible.|weve had some amazing results and they continue to come in.|got a little shake-up in iowa. i dont know whats going on.|somebody said "are you going straight to new hampshire?" now, i love new hampshire. weve got great numbers. 38 to 12. thats good.|but we fell a little behind in iowa, and some people are saying how can it be. and i come out and i was just telling a group we have the biggest crowds,|we have the most enthusiastic crowds.|everybody said and its very true. i mean, look at this. somebody else would come, theyd have like 50 people and they wouldnt need this|room. believe me.|but everybody said without question in every poll this isnt just here that the people that are with trump are with trump. they|dont go anywhere. theyre staying. its true. i see it. i see it.|and weve seen it.|you know, a couple of times i say "well, that could be the end." then they do something and im 10 points up. its the craziest thing, right?|but well take it.|but they say the people are with we have the most loyal people by far. everybody says it.|the other thing they say is for leadership, number one. very important, right? dont you think? leadership.|i mean, when leadership is number one they say on the economy without question number one and by a lot.|so you know its great.|i thought id talk a little bit and i want to take some questions. you know, we can do a little question and answer. right?|we have all these cameras going back here. and you know, its always tough when youre on live television all the time.|look, we have 10 topics. right? how many topics? 10? how many different ways can you talk about the 10 topics?|the bottom line is we want results. we want to get it done. but when youre on live television all the time all those people back there and the|cameras are on and then youre talking about immigration and youre talking about the wall because were going to have a wall and were|going to stop illegal immigration.|but we talk about trade and we talk about repealing obamacare. and we talk about all the things that we talk about.|but you know, you have these points and we could talk about them in different forms, in different ways and give different examples. but in the end,|its really about results. isnt it? its really about results.|and you can only talk about the same subjects on live television so many different ways.|i talk about industry. i talk about commerce. i talk about how were losing our jobs to all of these different countries. and i give different|examples.|but its still going to be a certain number of subjects.|i talk about second amendment. i talk about fourteenth amendment. we talk about amendments.|you know, that second amendment, they want to take it away from you. they really want to do things and its not going to happen. its not going|to happen. at least with me its not going to happen. that i can tell you.|so i said today you know well talk for a little while but i want to do some questions and answers. i want you people to excite me for a change. is|that okay? i want to be excited. and so were going to have some fun. were going to do that.|a few things i want to bring up a few new subjects.|so, immigration, were going to be doing a very strong number. its killing us. its killing us. and its bad for the economy. its|bad for all of this illegal immigration.|and i have to tell you legal you come in and were going to have a good time and youre going to be there and youre going to do great|and visas maybe work, maybe there are cases where you need people in and well do something, were not going to hurt our economy in|any way, shape or form. were going to make our economy much, much stronger.|but were also going to get jobs for people that are here. people with us. were going to get jobs. were going to get jobs.|but the illegal immigration you know, i did this and i made my determination i took a deep breath. because ill tell you what, it takes|courage to say im going to run for president. it really does, especially in my case where i have a great business and i love my business. i love|doing it. i may never even see it.|i mean, i own some of the great properties in the world. doral in miami. i may never see it again turnberry in scotland, one of the greatest homes|of the british open and all of that. i may never see it again.|all of these incredible places that i have.|but more than that, it takes courage because when you do it, youre putting yourself out there beyond anything that anybodys done and it even|takes courage for a politician to do it.|now at some point some of these guys have to leave. dont we agree? its getting ridiculous.|because like tomorrow night were having a debate, and i wish we had more time for the debate. not in terms of three hours because who wants three|hours? you know, i could stand up for 20 hours if i had to but who wants to watch that long?|hillarys debate essentially lasted for an hour and a half and i was oh it was you couldnt watch it.|you have hillary against a socialist/communist. and honestly, hes not going to win. just so you understandhes not going to win and neither|is she|well, shes being totally protected because in theory she shouldnt even be allowed to run. shes being protected.|its a tough game and its a nasty game but shes being totally protected.|but shes going to beat him and you still have one more of these guys. omalley. so hell be out quickly, i guess. i dont know|whats he doing. what do they do when they have zero? they have zero.|and i wouldnt say it against our folks. but theyve treated me some of the zeroes have treated me so nastily, right? because they want to|start controversy and they want to try pick up some points.|and you know what? im not going to even mention names. usually i do. i love doing it. but everybody thats hit me so far has gone down.|theyve gone down. and theyve gone down bigly.|and a couple of the ones and zeroes theyre the ones that hit the hardest. i mean, theyre like desperate people. but they hit.|one of them has a zero with an arrow pointing to the left. that means less than zero. and i dont understand. what does it mean? i assume its a|typo but maybe not.|but when you look at the things that are happening with our country the trade situation with not just china i talk about china all the time|because thats the main abuser, thats the biggest abuser. the numbers are astronomical. almost $400 billion a year in terms of imbalance. think|of it $400 billion a year.|and they send stuff over here but we cant send stuff over there. they tax us. big tax.|a friend of mine cant get stuff over there. the tax is so big. big tax.|somebody bought an airplane in china here. cant get it over there. spoiled guy. rich guy. bought a beautiful plane. cant get it over there|because the tax is so massive that hes now selling in this country because china wont let him have the plane and he has to pay a tax.|i wont even tell you what the tax is. its so astronomical that i dont even believe them myself. so im not going to say it because|those guys will say "well, he was wrong." all i can tell you is its a massive tax. like you dont buy planes here because if you do, you|wont be able to get them back in.|and here, we accept all of their products.|so we have almost a $400 billion trade imbalance with china.|we have a $70 billion trade imbalance with japan.|we have a you know, with all thats going on in the south china sea and you look where we have a destroyer a relatively small ship |over there, i dont know if id want to be the captain of that ship right now. but theyre being sort of mocked and scorned and a lot of bad|things can happen.|but you know, we have an agreement with japan and i love japan. i love china. i love all these people. but their leaders are killing us because|theyre smarter, sharper, more cunning.|the leaders of mexico are killing us at the border and in trade. theyre taking so many of our companies.|even nabisco my oreos theyre taking nabisco. right? im never eating oreos. i tell it all the time. they had some oreos before on|the plane and i said i dont want to touch them. bring them back. i yelled out to bring them back.|but im not happy. theyre leaving chicago and theyre moving their big plant to mexico.|so when you see this happening, we have to stop it.|and im not going to beat around the bush and "oh, lets talk and lets be nice and lets say " nobody can do it like i do it.|nobody. honestly, nobody.|we can im not saying im perfect because im not perfect. nobodys perfect|now, nobodys perfect. but ill tell you when it comes to that stuff im really theres nobody better.|carl icahn endorsed me the other day. hes one of the great traders, one of the great dealmakers. he says trump, trump. and hes not somebody|that just do it. he wants somebody that knows what theyre doing. he understand.|you talk about corporate inversions and all of the things that have been going on.|corporate inversions. you know, many of the companies in this country have trillions of dollars cumulatively. they think $2.5 trillion overseas right|now. they cant get it in.|and everybody agrees that we should bring it in. the democrats and the republicans. theyve agreed for years. they cant make a deal because|they have no leader.|its not like "oh gee, we disagree on obamacare. or we disagree on something else."|although i must tell you many of the democrats that i speak to because im friendly with all of them. im friendly with like republicans. i get|a long with everybody.|you know, everybody says "oh, you wont be a unifier". ill be the greatest unifier of all. why is obama a unifier?|but i will tell you many of the democrats who voted for obamacare would never have done it now and were lied to 28 times. right? "you can keep your|doctor, keep your plan, keep your this, everythings going to be great." turned out to be a total lie. 28 different times that they know of and they|wouldnt have done it.|but when you look at whats happening with corporations and the highest tax we pay the highest tax anywhere in the world of any country |but they have trillions of dollars overseas. and these are great companies in many cases. they have thousands of employees. they cant get their|money back.|and the reason is bureaucracy. its very hard.|and also big reason the tax is too high. they dont want to bring $1 million back and pay $300,000 or $350,000 tax. theyd rather leave it over|there.|and if they bring it back, theyll be using it to invest in our country. i mean, a lot of good things will happen.|i happen to believe its more than $2.5 trillion.|but heres the thing and i use it because its so incredible. heres the thing. its not controversial. its not like you have the|republicans here and you have everybody agrees. theyve agreed you know that for 2.5, 3 years. they cant make a deal.|and now whats happening and this will be the next great story is companies are leaving the united states two reasons lower taxes but|also to get their money. theyve got billions of dollars overseas. theyre leaving our country in order to get their money and in order to pay|lower tax.|and youre talking about one company i know of i dont know how much theyve written about it but youre talking about 6,000|jobs just one company. youre talking about potentially thousands of companies.|and i say it, in the old days, theyd leave new york. people would move down and companies would move down to florida or theyd move to texas or|theyd leave new jersey, where taxes are quite high, and theyd move to another location. right? now, they leave our country and they go to|other countries. thats whats happened.|in the world of the internet and the world of very fast jets, its a different world out there.|and theres no loyalty. theyre paid a lot of money to make a lot of money for their shareholders and some of them are actually foreign;|theyd like to move back to these countries.|they bring in executives that are from ireland, from other places. and they dont mind. they dont have loyalty to the united states.|so my plan, my tax plan, is something im very proud of. were going to solve corporate inversion.|ill tell you what, we will have that money back if i get elected president, that money will be back so fast your head will spin. nobody else|will be able to do it. nobody.|honestly, nobody else even knows about it. the other candidates, most of them dont even know about it. its not their wheelhouse. okay?|its not their thing. its not their thing.|their thing is getting re-elected. thats what theyre good at. they get re-elected. and they make promises and theyre all talk and|theyre no action. and the same things happen with these politicians. its always the same.|so we have so many different things and what ive done with our tax plan, which something im very proud of, weve brought it down to a few|groups.|because right now, you have to go out people who arent doing well go out and hire companies to help them with their tax plans. theyll|pay $500, $1,000 because its so complicated.|and were going to make it nice and simple.|and were getting rid of carried interest, which is something that a lot of rich hedge fund guys love. but were getting rid of it. they|dont love me so much anymore. but i dont care.|and were getting rid of a lot of things.|so were going to have a nice simple tax return.|somebody said "oh, why isnt everybody paying?"|you know, 40% a big percentage will not pay any tax at all. people that are doing badly.|they said well, i wont use the candidates name because i dont want to insult any candidate when they cant defend themselves.|they said "we want everybody to pay at least something." and i said, "i agree."|heres the problem. from the standpoint of bookkeeping, from the standpoint of bureaucracy, youre talking about millions and millions of|returns. youre talking about building the irs even bigger and its a monster. and i could cut it down way down. and the money that youre|talking about is far less than the administrative costs.|so i said, "i agree. except for one thing from a practical standpoint, its too much. most of these people arent paying anyway."|what i want to do is bring our jobs back from china, bring our jobs back from mexico, bring fairness to our deals as an example with japan.|i was in los angeles. ships the biggest ships youve ever seen. cars are pouring off into this country. made in japan. we give them|practically nothing.|the balance is so bad. the imbalance is so bad. and then we have all the strikes.|see, what our people dont know and only somebody that wrote "the art of the deal" or does this stuff. its natural. its like a great|athlete. like a jack nicklaus. he was always able to sink that putt. right? you know, hes just better. and you have athletes very few |but there are some people that have a certain ability.|a lot of people dont even know we have all the power. we have all the power in china.|you know, we owe right now china and japan equally $1.5 think of this trillion. $1.5 trillion. think of this. they take our business and in|the case of japan, mostly cars. but they take our business. they take our jobs. factories close down all over the place. and we owe them money. right?|its a magic act. for them not for us. for us its a horror show.|its going to end. its going to end.|and people like carl icahn and the people like the best negotiators i know the best negotiators in the world. some i think are horrible people.|ill be honest with you. i dont care. do you care if theyre horrible people? who cares?|now, carl happens to be actually a very nice guy but hes a brilliant negotiator and a tough cookie and hes built a fortune. he doesnt|want money. he doesnt want to say, "oh, give me $200,000 a year in government money." he wants to do it. hes proud to do it. he wants to help|the country. and its so easy for him.|for instance, if i say "carl, do me a favor. the trade deal we have with china is so unfair were losing $400 billion a year. carl, do me a favor.|make it fair." i dont have to give him a big speech. i dont have to give him a big speech.|i mean, i can tell you that within a very, very short period of time, things will straighten out. i mean, things will straighten out and its going|to be our benefit.|but think of it, if were losing that kind of money that imbalance. its an imbalance. some people will say "thats not really a|loss." it is a loss. if we have that kind of imbalance and suppose you brought it back to zero or even if we lost $100 billion a year, thats a lot|of money. believe me, i couldnt sleep.|if i brought it to $100 billion a year, get rid of me in four years, all right?|but suppose we brought it back to $100 billion or we brought it back to zero, do you know what that means to this country? do you know the kind of money|youre talking about? then jobs will start coming back, lots of good things would happen. lots of great things would happen.|and maybe our babies who have all these toys all over the place, maybe theyll have 75% and maybe theyll like them better. maybe theyll be|better. and theyll be manufactured here.|whenever i order television sets, i ordered thousands and thousands of television sets a year for different jobs. and whenever i order them, they all|come from south korea. they make all the television other than sony but sony has sort of lost its way a little bit. sony is japan.|but south korea lg, samsung. i dont get bids from american. id love to. id love to.|george will said theres a company in south carolina that makes television. i said where are they? id like to have a good name too by the way.|its important. you know, when somebodys paying you a fortune for a hotel room, its nice to see a good name. right? do we agree?|well, its a company in south carolina but they dont make them there; they assemble them. theyll order parts that come in and theyll|assemble them. but much different.|but id love it if we made them.|but you take south korea. we defend south korea for essentially nothing. you have the maniac over in north korea that nobody ever talks about by the|way. now, he really has nuclear weapons and we dont talk about him.|we made the worst deal ever made with iran. right? the worst.|these are the people that represent these people are incompetent. or stupid. somebody said, "you shouldnt say stupid. its not nice." but|its true. theyre stupid. i think. i mean, i think. unless i dont know is there something going on that we dont know about?|think of it. point after point, we lost. we lost everything. weve given them $150 billion. hard to believe. they dont have to develop i|was telling somebody they dont have to develop nuclear weapon; they can buy it.|what the hell why should they develop it? they can buy it. and now all of a sudden theyre going into syria. they got so much money. theyre a|terrorist state. theyre going into all of these different places. were fighting them in yemen and yet were making a deal with them.|so why dont you say "hey, yemen out"? our prisoners i want them back. i want them back. i dont want them over there. i want them back.|and all we have to do, very simple, is if you have the right messenger. im the right messenger. you know, ive gotten to a point where i have|to be braggadocious. its terrible. right? because i cant be so nice and say "we can all do a wonderful job". people cant do those kind of|stuff.|for instance, the wall. i said, i guarantee you that were going to build a wall. its going to be a real wall. were going to have people|come through and theyre going to come through legally. or theyre going to come through with visas, which is a safe way, if we need it.|and we want people to come through. i want people to come through. i dont want to say no.|but we have at least 11 million you know, the scary thing is nobody has any idea how many. you know, weve been hearing that number for years.|you know, like 11 million. we have no idea. i spoke to one of the top people. they have no idea. might be 5 million. might also be 32 million. could be|50 |but we have to get them out. we have to look, its harsh.|dwight eisenhower we all like dwight. right? remember the expression. right?|i go remember he got elected "i like ike". how could he be bad? all right? and i think he was a nicer general than macarthur and patton. and i|like ike as a president but i love patton and i love general macarthur. i love them. and were going to find ourselves a patton and were going|to find ourselves because we have a lot of smart guys in our military and women. were going to find ourselves a pattonbut were going to|find a patton and were going to find a macarthur. and im really good at that. were going to find great people.|and ive told this story where i watched these generals go on television they shouldnt be on television. they shouldnt be talking.|you know? they shouldnt be talking. they should be doing.|and they asked a certain general, im not going to insult him. it was like a month and a half ago. on a show. a talk show. i said heres general|so and so, one of the top, top, top people. i said whats he doing on television? and hes saying "well, isis is very tough. you know, they|spread out."|by the way, they took the oil that i said take. remember i said "take the oil"? always take the oil! theyre being funded by the oil that i said|take.|i dont want their damned oil. but you know what? it turned out to be another benefit of having it. take the oil. and we didnt do it.|we shouldnt have been in iraq in the first place. and i said that in 2003. shouldnt have been there.|we totally destabilized the middle east. we totally blew it.|but we were there. then obama announces because hes so predictable "we are leaving on a certain date in a year."|right? i couldnt believe. i was sitting there thinking "did he really say that?"|he said "we will have all troops out by a certain date." right? did he say that?|i said "no, no, tell me please."|oh, you know what another one i got high marks on from every poll? military. they think ill be the best in the military because they say i|you know, i always say ill be the greatest jobs president that god ever created. i will. but everybody knows that, especially god. everybody|knows that.|but you know what ill be? ill be the great at the military. ill be so good. and ill know when and ill build our military|so strong, so tough, so incredible, nobodys going to mess around. were never going to have to use it. were never going to have to use it.|and im going to take care of our vets. believe me, theyre our greatest people and our vets are not being treated as well as illegal|immigrants. im going to take care of our vets.|so go back. so the world is unpredictable.|i made a business deal a year ago. and the guy oh, i beat him so badly. aye, it was so beautiful. it was a beautiful thing. it was like a picture.|for me, it was like a picture. thats my own problem. i guess. but to me its like a painting when you could do something like that.|so i made this deal and it was great. and they called. they did a story on me recently and it was a nice story. and i said, i hope they dont call|this guy. they ended up calling this guy "what do you think about trump?" and he said but in a respectful way, he said "he won because he was so damn|unpredictable. we dont know what the hell he was going to do." thats a positive. thats a positive.|i mean, if youre a poker player and youre predictable, youre not going home with much money. okay?|but it was really i said, "thats not nice what he said." first, i said "thats not nice. im unpredictable." then i said, "wait a|minute. he meant that as a compliment." and i called him. i said, "what did you mean by that?" he said "i think thats the greatest compliment i can|pay. we could not figure you out. you came at us from 15 different angles."|so with obama, when he announces that were leaving iraq on a certain date, we shouldnt have been there but once you announced the bad guys|you know how they say the surge worked? you know why the surge worked? you know why? because the bad guys all moved back. they said, "hey, what do|we have to get killed for?" i mean, these people dont mind being killed, can you believe it? but they said "if we dont have to, lets|not." so they moved back.|and they said, "hey, theyre leaving in -" what was the date? do you remember the date? specific date to the day. "we will have all troops out.|im a great president."|so the bad guys, meaning the opponents, whatever you want to call them, they just said, "oh, youre leaving in a year. going to have all the troops|out. lets go back. why do we have to be shot at for the next year? and what do we have to do because if we do well maybe hell change his mind|and stay. so lets let him think he has this great victory with the surge." right? "the surge worked!"|what happened was that everybody pulled back. they said, "lets wait."|now we leave because of a lack of leadership. we leave and boom it comes apart. thats what happened. that was the surge.|everybody talk so much "oh, the surge was so great." the surge was great because everybody knew they knew what was happening. they knew it|was going to happen. they knew we were leaving even through bush.|i mean, honestly, they knew we were leaving. they were fed up. so they pulled back and they said, "lets get them out." everybody wanted to leave.|now, i would have done it differently. even if i wanted to leave and i might or i might not. i wont even say.|people say, "mr. trump, whats your attitude on isis? when will you attack them? where?|i say "you know, i dont want to talk i have a real chance of winning. i dont want to tell you what my attitude. i want them to guess. i|dont really want to tell you."|i mean, the one bad thing about our system, we have a system that got flaws. lets face it. hey, look at our leadership, its got flaws.|but you know the one bad thing? when i gave that answer, they say although some people i see it here some people say "we love that. we|love that." but when i give that answer, some people say "oh, trump doesnt know. he doesnt know. he didnt give an answer as to exactly|what hes going to do. exactly what hes going to do."|and i know exactly what im going to do and eventually after i was asked the question by 10 different reporters, all of whom are here tonight by the|way, i said, "you know, heres the problem. if i dont give the answer, im not going to win because they write so incredibly negatively. so|if i dont give the answer, im not going to win." theyre going to say "trump wouldnt give us the answer."|they dont know its unpredictability. they dont know its strategy.|and i said for a period of time like a month, i said "i dont want to tell you because i actually have a chance because from the time i announced,|ive been on the top of the polls, almost at the top. you know, were doing well."|iowa, will you get your numbers up please? would you get these numbers up? i promise you i would do such a good job.|first of all, i am a great christian and i am. i am. remember that.|and i do well with the evangelicals. but the evangelicals left me down a little bit just last month. i dont know what i did.|but i am a great christian. im a believer and i believe in the bible. and i even brought my bible a month ago to a group signed by my mother, mary,|and with the address and the date i wont tell you what date it was because possibly youd think im younger than that. but she|didnt want anybody taking my bible because that was very important to her.|so cute. she has the address, has the date. but i said to myself, "you know "|by the way, before i forget, will you get the numbers up iowa please? this is ridiculous. i mean, what is my competition? in all fairness, in all|fairness, what is my competition?|do you think these guys im not going to say carson im not going to say rubio, who really is way down i mean, i am second.|its not like its terrible. but i dont like being second. second is terrible to me.|but do you think that ben is going to go to china? these guys are fierce. like theyd come into your office. ive made many deals with china.|ive had great victories in terms of deals with china. they come into your office. theres no "hello. how are you? its a wonderful day."|they come in "we want deal." theres no games. i do this for a living. im really good at it, folks. really good.|and you know, when you talk about energy, ill tell you one thing, everybody agrees oh, do i have energy. oh. i toss and turn thinking about|how im going to make the best deal for you folks. ill be tossing and turning. i will be tossing and turning. youre going to have so many|deals that is so good for you. were going to have numbers are going to be so good.|i always joke you may get tired of them but then i always take that back because nobody gets tired of winning.|we dont win anymore. you know, think about it. do we win at all? ever?|we lose with the military. isis beats us. everybody.|we lose with trade.|when are we going to come back and say, "we beat china" on a deal? when are we going to come back, "we beat japan"?|do you know that everybody said "oh, japan. they have so power over us. they have so much power because we owe them $1.5 trillion and they send all|those cars."|they have no power. if we ever say, "listen, if youre not going to treat us fairly, we dont want your cars anymore", theyd go out of|business, folks, theyre gone.|same thing with china. china is not even doing that well. but they just lowered, they just devalued their currency. the biggest in two decades. and the|reason they did it, they could never thought but we have so many other problems that they felt, "oh wow, we can get away with this and its going to|make it impossible."|did you see the results yesterday of caterpillar tractor? horrible. because theyre not getting stuff out because everybody japan and china in|particular is devaluing their currency. thats their number one weapon. and the stupid trade deal that were making doesnt even cover|it. thats their number one weapon and the trade that were making doesnt cover it.|so i only say this and you know what? people might say "its terrible. hes a terrible person, a terrible human being. but im going to vote|for him anyways." okay, thats fine. im actually a nice person.|i always say this nobody can do this stuff better than me. and i know all the guys im running against. theyre wonderful people. some of|them i really like. but who cares?|i was talking to one of the candidates the other day. i was talking about corporate inversions and they didnt even know what the hell i was|talking. they had no idea. its not their thing.|and unless we stop all of the things that are going with other countries and unless we make great trade deals, were being eaten alive.|thats why when you look at the phony numbers, we have 100 million people in our workforce that arent working. our real unemployment rate is|probably 30%. its not 5.3%. that was done for politicians so theyd look good. its not 5.3%. how can you have 5.3% when you have 100|million people?|you look for a job. if youre a young guy, that handsome young guy with the red hair, right therebut if he comes out and he goes into the|workforce and he looks for a job and he goes through college and does well and then he cant get a job and when he gives up because at some point|after months you give up, they essentially consider you employed. its the most ridiculous thing.|we have a tremendous tens of millions of people in that position. they cant find jobs. theyre good people. they want to work. they|cant. but its not reflected in the real numbers because the politicians want to look good.|so let me just before we talk some questions, im going to talk about something ive never really talked about it onstage but we should talk|about it. its called super pacs.|its one of the great scams of all time. its one of the great scams.|so we sent out i think i had and its not me. people set them up. and i dont know. maybe theyre setting up for my benefit.|lets take me. a guy sees me, likes me, sets up a super pac. i dont talk to him. i dont do anything.|i think we had either 9 or 5 or 11. we dont even know. theyre all over the place. trump, trump one of them called the art of the deal|pac after the book.|they have all these pacs. and the money comes in. and what do they do with the money? i dont know.|and we arent supposed to call them or anything. okay.|so, we wrote a letter a legal letter to i think either 9 or 11 last week saying we dont want their money, send it back because again,|what do they do with it? if some guy thats having a hard time all of a sudden has $2 million sitting in a super pac, do you think hes going to|take ads for trump? maybe and maybe not.|so we sent them a its a scam, super pacs, a scam. its a disgrace that we have. a disgrace.|and ill tell you i read a number with, as an example, with ben. ben is paying 70 to almost 80 cents on the dollar to raise money. so when you read|he has all this money, hes paying a lot of money and thats not reflected yet. so when you hear they raised $20 million, theyre paying|now think of it, who pays the number i actually heard was 79 but you know these guys will check them so im telling you it may be off|but you all know its a lot.|i think they said, 79 cents on the dollar. think of it. to raise the money, they take 79 cents before they get to use the money for what it was supposed|to be. somebody is making a fortune.|i know in romneys campaign, a couple of guys walked away with millions and millions of dollars. millions. they became rich raising money. its|better than being a real estate broker.|for the people and real estate brokers, they take these massive percentages of the money they raise. its a scam. its a scam.|now, in bens case, his super pac is running iowa. and let me tell you, the people that are running that super pac, even if it comes in small|donations, those are the real bosses. those are the bosses.|in the case of jeb bush, youre not supposed to deal with these super pacs. okay? so, it was in the wall street journal the other day. he has a|super pac fundraiser or something in a hotel and right next to it, he had his campaign ballroom. did you read that? two ballrooms. one here, one here,|right next to each other by coincidence, of course. theyre not supposed to be coordination. theyre not supposed to be talking. theyre|right next to each other. and thats nothing compared to what some are doing.|its a scam and it should be stopped. and its unfair to somebody like me that is spending my own money.|and what happened and i havent talked about this before but im seeing whats going on. its horrible whats going on. what|happened is the last time they had the super pacs, i actually think there was sort of a wall. you know, they called it the wall.|and this is a wall too. wont be as good as the one im going to build but its a wall.|but it was a wall and they didnt deal.|i mean, even though like bush has a friend of his running his super pac, im sure they never talk. im sure. what do you think the chances are|that they talk? 100% or 99%? 100%. id say 100%. id say 100%. only a foolish person would say 99%. but whatever.|theyre not supposed to. but they put a friend in there. they put other people in there. they put whoever. and thats the way it works.|and in some cases, i hear in bens case, i hear in other cases, theyre literally running.|i mean, had walker done this in all fairness because he had money in the super pac but he had no money in his campaign and he was unable to figure out|this is what theyre all doing. thats why hes out of the race because he couldnt figure it out.|the whole thing with super pacs is a horrible, horrible scam. so i sent letters last week to as many as we could find. theyre all over the place.|we want you to close the super pac. we want nothing to do with it. we dont want to get advertisements. we dont want any of the money. go home|and ideally give the money back. they dont even have to give the money back from what i understand. they can keep it. theyll probably if they|actually raised money for me, theyll say "what a horrible thing he just said. i think were going to support somebody else." they could do|that.|but the super pacs have total control over the people running for office. total. nothing over me. nothing.|i feel its very unfair. i feel its a very unfair situation.|now, if they want, they could have full disclosure and everythingbut what are they doing with this whole thing?|and i think it makes dishonest people out of people that might be honest.|but the super pacs are controlling your candidates some more than others. some are unbelievable.|and what the press should really do is take a look at how much money is left. when you read that ben raised $1, how much is left after he pays all of|the consultants and all of these people, how much is left to spend in the campaign. youll be amazed. i mean, its so little.|bush, its the same thing.|and ill go over there are other names. i know every one of them. but its a horrible thing thats taking place.|and again, last cycle, at least they went through the motions. now, theyre not even going through the motions. theyre not even going through.|and just remember when i have to negotiate with companies to keep them in this country so they build jobs here and they build their plants here and|their factories here and they do all of the things here, when i have to do that, you know, john deere, i paid them tens of millions of dollars. you can|even check. i said to john deere, "i want an endorsement." i dont know if theyll give me an endorsement. ill tell you if they dont|theyre not so smart. i guarantee no other person gave john deere i mean, i bought probably more than $10 million worth of john deere|equipments. i love it. you know why? iowa. iowa. i love it. i love it.|when we can. by the way, its a great company. its a great company. but i buy a lot of stuff from john deere because i have a lot of big|developments that really require john deere type equipment. i dont have to buy it from them. i could buy it from others. but i want to steer it to|them when i can.|but we have to do something to clean up this political mess because its crooked stuff. its crooked stuff. and its got to stop.|and its very unfair to people who go out and do it the way youre supposed to do it, including me. i think im the only one thats|self-funding. im the only one putting up my own money, other than i know its precious people write in to donaldjtrump.com or|whatever and they send me checks like $20. i keep saying the woman for $7.50, $50, $100. i dont want their money. but if you send it back its|totally insulting.|i mean, they always write letters too. they write these beautiful letters "mr. trump, i cant afford much and i know you dont need it but|im sending $50 because thats so important what youre saying about the country." its beautiful.|i mean, ive seen such beautiful letters. and if i send it back, theres no letter i can write thats not going to be insulting to those|people, really. "dear mr. so and so or mrs. so and so, i dont need your money and thanks a lot but were going to do it ourselves." if i got|that back, id say "who the hell does he think he is?"|so we take that and its something that i think is important.|so i always preface it by saying i dont consider that funding but im self-funding my campaign and im getting ready to put up millions,|millions.|and something im very proud of that i think its great and its you know really great, it hasnt gotten very much publicity, hasnt|gotten much publicity, but i have spent less money than any other candidate. okay? by far. i think. i dont know, probably a couple of guys that|have nothing so they just go aroundbut i was told that i spend less. and i have the best results because in most polls im number one.|now, until iowa came along, i said "every poll", and then iowa what the hell are you people doing to me? you know? you know?|im telling you. they said, "why dont you skip iowa?" they told me that. everybody said "skip iowa". all of the political geniuses.|a man just interviewed me back there, great reporter. hes actually a great reporter. of course, if he writes a bad story, i wont say that. but|he is. hes a great reporter.|and he said, "would you ever think of maybe skipping iowa going right to new hampshire? and then youd go to south carolina" where im leading|by massive yeah, youve got to see the rallies there. theyre incredible.|"but youd go to new hampshire. youd go to south carolina. you go to nevada. you go to the scc."|i said i cant do that because i have such an unbelievable relationship with the people from iowa that i think were going to win. i really do.|i believe it. i believe it.|and i dont want to skip iowa. i think were going to do well. i think were going to do great with evangelicals. i think a lot of things|are going to come out over the next period of time that are not going to be so good for our opponents, honestly, and i think im going to do great|with the evangelicals because i am the real deal. i will tell you that. im the real deal.|so i told these political pros, you know, i hate to say it but the last long number of elections on the republican circuit, the person that won iowa did|not get the nomination. okay? i want to take away some of your muster. you understand that.|so could we do and please do me a favor? let me win iowa. and then im going to win, im telling you were going to win new hampshire,|and were going to win south carolina.|a great poll just came out on north carolina just a little while. a ppp poll. it was great. some of you saw that. but great poll.|but were going to go on and were going to win. were going to win.|and actually, one of the pundits because you have some smart pundits and some very, very dumb pundits. a lot of pundits said "hell never run.|hes not going to run." theyre still trying to recover.|but one of the very smart one says "if trump wins iowa, its over." its interesting because it will go right through because everywhere else is|so great.|and i thought it was good here. come on. okay, so thats the end of that.|but i want to tell you, will you i refuse to say "get your asses in gear." i will not say that. i will not say it. i will not say it because i|dont want to use anything thats even a little bit off.|so will you please do me a favor and work with my people and go out on feb. 1stand vote and give us a victory?|and if i win iowa, were going to run the whole table and we are going to make such great deals and were going to have such a great military|and were going to take care of our health care without that crazy obamacare thats a nightmare.|so, im sticking with you people. im going to spend money here. i have a great team over here. and i will tell you im going to spend a lot|of time here and i really want to win iowa and i think we should and its so important. and you know, its about time that iowa could have a|victory and let that person go onto a total victory. okay? not like over the last right?|so, i love you all. i mean, were having fun. but i love you all. but i do mean it. im going to stay here. were going to work really hard.|when i heard the poll today, they said "what are you going to do?" i said, "im going to work harder in iowa." im not leaving iowa. im not|leaving iowa.|now, if i lose iowa, i will never speak to you people again. that i can tell you.|okay, lets do a couple of questions. right? come on.|you know, we have now and the numbers they just came out we have 50 million people in poverty in this country.|now, you look like youre doing pretty well in all fairness. but still, we have 50 million. we have 46 million people and theyre getting food|stamps. 46 million. think of it. you know, we talk about how well were doing.|so we have 50 million almost 50 million each between poverty, food stamps, and its got to end.|one of the problems we dont have enough jobs in this country. its very simple. you know, its so simple when you think about it.|our jobs have been taken away.|and ill tell you what else, middle income folks their salaries havent gone up in 12 years. people are making less wages now than they|were 12 years ago. and other things have gone up. so theyre really doing much worse than they were doing 12 years ago.|but thats an amazing stat.|but people one of the reasons they say im doing so well because i let people know were going to bring jobs back. were going to|bring industry and plants. were going to bring it all back and nobody else can say that. were going to bring it back because a lot of the|folks in this room are doing worse than they were 12 years ago and theyre working.|then the other thing, you have a lot of part-time jobs. i have some people that i know very well and theyve had a job for 20 years at the same|place. all of a sudden theyre working part-time because of obamacare because from an accounting standpoint, it just works better. they love the|owners, the stores and things. they love the owners; they think the owners are great. but the owners are forced to make part-time jobs; they have|part-time jobs. they work all their life. they have a wonderful company that theyre working for, and now all of a sudden theyre cut into|part-time jobs because of obamacare because of the rulings of obamacare. and you all know what im talking about.|so they end up being part-time workers and they dont want to be part-time workers. they dont even like the psychology of being called a|part-time worker. and were not going to have that stuff anymore. were not going to have it any more.|were going to have real jobs and the numbers are going to go up. believe me. the numbers are right now worse than 12 years ago and thats a|shame|tell you what, as president, i can guarantee it. as trump, i can say ill probably be able to pull it off anyway because they know it wont|stop. itll be easier to take todd and just say, "look, were going to work with you, todd. okay?" so will you get me that number and everything|and well make sure that everything get and somebody else who else over here? you have problems with the va also, huh? terrible?|i hear only i just hear terrible. and were going to solve that problem. you know, it can be solved.|the waits now for the va are longer than theyve ever beenthe waits now are worse than theyve ever been. thousands of people dying waiting|for a doctor. okay, dying.|and you find the same thing, you say. you have to use your own because they wont do anything.|so were going to take care of our vets and were going to take care of the va and its going to be one of the things were going to be|releasing pretty soon.|but one of the things were going to do with the va, we have a lot of hospitals that arent doing any business. we have a lot of private doctors|that could do more business.|were losing a lot of our doctors because of obamacare. theyre retiring. theyre leaving.|one of them a friend of mine said "i have more nurses working for me now more than before but i have more accountants" and the end result is|a disaster; hes getting out of the business. hes got nurses but hes got more accountants than he has nurses because the paperwork is so|crazy.|so one of the things were going to do is if todd or if you or if somebody has problems because of the wait because the waits are unbelievable|5, 6, 7 days sometimes. theyre going to a private doctor. theyre going to go to a private hospital. or a public hospital thats in|the area. and were going to pay for that and its going to cost less money its going to cost less money than the system we have now|and youre going to end up getting much better care. its going to cost less and youre going to get better care|so the keystone pipeline, first of all, id approve it because its thousands of jobs. okay? i would approve it so fast, so fast.|and hillary should have approved it.|you know, hillary wanted to approve it but shes been dragged so far left, thats shes forget it. its a disaster.|so i would approve it.|but with that being said, i may want to make a better deal because you know what? were bringing oil from canada. right? i may say, i want 10%.|were going to approve it but i want 10%, 15%.|because the truth is that the keystone pipeline was better a while ago than it is now because we have so much because of new technology, we have so much|energy underneath our own feet with the fracking and all of the other things that have emerged over the last five years, we have so much energy. and|its great stuff.|we have really great quality, higher than canada. you know, they have the tar sands, which is a problem for them. very expensive to get it out.|we have great stuff. so i would approve it because i love the jobs of building it. i love the jobs of building it.|but i may just say, maybe we should get 10%, 15%, maybe 20% as that oil flows through our land. you know, maybe we should do that.|so im going to look into that. but when i approve it ill tell you what, when i approve it, itll be a great deal for the united|states. it wont be like because right now, what were doing is were approving it, were not really getting anything. theyre|putting it underground, and thats actually good environmentally. better than having trucks going down the road and everything else. thats good|environmentally. but were not getting were not getting anything much for it.|when i get finished with the keystone, theyll be happy and well be happy. okay?|well, ill tell you in all fairness, ben carson said yesterday or the other day that he wants to abolish medicare. okay? and you know what a|disaster that is. now, im sure at some point, hell take it back. but he said he wants to abolish medicare and one thing, people do like their|medicare; they do like it.|and you are bringing up a point that ive heard before. were going to look at a lot of different things.|but were going to save social security, were going to save medicare and thats the way it is. okay? were not abolishing like other|people.|okay, its a lot of people but you know what? its costing us $200 billion a year immigration in this country right now.|and dwight eisenhower is going to say he moved 1.5 million in the 1950s, early 1950s, moved them out.|we have tremendous illegal immigration problems. dwight eisenhower, nice guy, he moved 1.5 million people out of the united states. and you know what|happened? he moved them right across the border and they came back and they moved them again and they came back. they moved them a third time, they came|right back.|and then you know they were tougher in those days. they moved them all the way south all the way south and they didnt come back.|now, we have to do it. we have no choice. we either have a country or we dont.|and i want them to come back. but i want them to come back with papers. i want them to come back legally. i want them to come back. the good ones. the|good ones. but only the good ones.|we got some bad ones. remember the heat i took with illegal immigration? remember that heat? for two weeks. rush limbaugh said "he has received more|incoming than any human being ive ever seen." and then he double-downed|you know what? i took a lot of heat and then you had kate in san francisco, killed, shot in the back and so many others. and people started looking.|and let me tell you, we have some wonderful people over here and theyre here illegally but theyre wonderful people. okay? and well try to|get them back real soon and well do it through a legal process.|but we also have some really bad gang members. you know, some of the gangs in la. theyre made up of illegal immigrants.|and we have unbelievable police forces that dont get the respect that they should get. they dont get it. i mean, what they go through,|its unbelievable. theyre afraid to talk to anybody. they dont want to lose their jobs. they dont want to lose their pensions. they|cant talk.|now, let me just tell you something. you can always have bad apples. in this room, we have a couple of bad apples. okay? i dont know who they are|or where they are but you do. probably mostly back there in the press.|but the police do an unbelievable job. and they know the gangs. you go to la the la cops. you got chicago, the chicago cops. these people are amazing|people if they would be allowed to do their jobs. but theyre not allowed to do their jobs.|and were going to get the bad ones out of here so fast and theyre not coming back and i dont want to put them in our jails because i|dont want to subsidize these various countries where they come from for the next 45 years. i dont want them in our jails. we have hundreds of|thousands right now in our jails. i dont want them in our jails.|i heard a couple of these candidates saying, "well, theyre " theyre such babies.|but you know what? theyre talking about putting them in jail. well, i dont want them. our jails are over-brimming. i want to use our jails for|people that are supposed to be there. okay? and i dont want to put these really bad dudes i mean, they are bad i dont want to have|to pay for them for the next 45 years. okay?|and were going to deal very humanely with the good people and they are mostly good people. but weve got some real bad ones and theyre out|of here. your head will spin probably.|somebody said the other day, "whats the first thing youre going to do?" well, were going to work immediately on repealing obamacare.|you know, the one good thing about executive orders? the one good thing? you know, obama signed an executive order where everybody just come in. come|we have great border patrol people. i got to know them a couple of months ago when i went down to texas to the border. theyre great people.|theyre not allowed to do their job. they stand there and watch people walk right in front of them smiling at them. they want to do their job;|theyre not allowed to.|so the executive order that president obama signed, the one good thing about an executive order, in the first minute in office, i will counter-sign and|revoke those executive orders. theyll be revoked. the only good thing.|its actually the only good thing about an executive order is that a new president can just do a signature and thats the end of that.|so were going to clean up our border. were going to make it fantastic. were going to be proud to be a country again and a lot of good|things are going to happen.|we will support israel 1,000%.|israel feels so left alone and i know bibi and a lot of my friends are from israel and they feel so left out.|and so many people say, you know, i have so many jewish friends where they say why did i support obama? i think hes the worst thing thats ever|happened to israel. and we will support israel beyond anything they ever have before. okay?|thats an easy one. thats the easiest question of the night!|the wall is a big factor. 60%, 70%. the drugs are a great question.|we are going to stop drugs.|look, i told you before mexico $45 to $50 billion. thats not including the drugs. the drugs that are coming across the border are|beyond belief.|did you see the picture last week where they had a little wall this big and they built a ramp for trucks to go over it with trucks? did you see the|picture? they think were playing games.|and mexico is not helping us. mexico is not helping.|do you know if you want to become a citizen of mexico i love the mexican people. i have many mexican people and hispanics working for me. in|nevada, im number one. im rated number one in the polls with the hispanics. everyones shocked.|because the hispanics that are here legally, those people they want me, they know im going to bring jobs and everything else. they dont want|people pouring in.|but i will tell you mexico has got to help us.|you know, if you want to become a citizen of mexicodo you know its one of the hardest countries in the world to become a citizen of? and yet,|people pour right through into us, into us. they call us the dumb americans. thats what they call us because of our leaders. they call us the dumb|americans.|if you want to become a citizen of mexico, you could take the best person in this room, the most qualified, youre not going to do it. they|dont do that.|and if youre there illegally and if you overstay your bound? youre not going to be there illegally. but if you have a pass for two weeks and|you overstay your bound, they have cops waiting for you. they have police that say, "you know you have one day left." i hear its unbelievable.|im impressed actually. because to a certain extent, thats the way its supposed to be.|but if you want to become a citizen of mexico, its impossible. they dont have anchor babies in mexico. youre born a baby in mexico,|its like bye-bye.|here, youre born over here, "oh, congratulations were taking care of the baby for 85 years." not going to happen. its not going to|happen. no, its not going to happen.|by the way, this is important, i sort of lucked into this one. the 14th amendment. it says right there you know, everybody says you have to go|through a whole process, itll take many years, you have to go through every state. you have to do another amendment. its wrong. 14th amendment|covers it.|and some of the best legal minds in the world say "trump is right." i said, "what? i am? i didnt know." i lucked into it. every once in a while you|luck.|the fact is somebody comes in illegally and they have a baby, were not responsible. now, we may have a court case but were going to win it.|and a simple act of congress gets rid of it. and a lot of people didnt know that. okay?|and the reason i said it can be possible because nobody could be foolish enough to allow a thing like that. how could it be possible? and were one|of the only countries where that takes place.|and honestly, i use mexico as an example because theyre so tough. if that happens in mexico, they dont even know what youre talking|about. what are you talking about? but with us? no good. not going to happen anymore.|well, you know, the amazing thing is that the politicians in this country live by a whole different standard when it comes to health care, when it comes|to everything they have including what you just said about social security.|our politicians live by a different standard and i think that shouldnt happen. and some of them tried to do it.|you know the story in obamacare, they dont have to take it. they live by a different standard. and thats not going to happen. everybodys|going to live by the same standard. theyre going to have the same standard as the poorest person in this room. thats the way its going to|its a good question. but do you know if i answer that question, wed have a big, big story. you know that, right?|you know, ill tell you, it is a question thats asked a lot.|i know a lot of good people. a couple of people on the stage that i really respect, ive gotten to respect.|but the truth is too early. i like to get things done first. weve got to close the deal. i dont want to think about it.|there are a lot of good people. there are a lot of good people. weve got to close the deal. weve got to get it done. and to get it done, i|want iowa.|so good luck everybody. thank you very much. i love you. i love you. thank you. and well be back. thank you.|so, were going to be discussing something so important for our country, for our economy, and for getting us all working again and working well|again.|its a tax reform that i think will make america strong and great again.|too few americans are working. too many jobs are being shipped overseas. and too many middle income families cannot make ends meet.|this plan directly meets these challenges and the challenges also of business.|it will provide major tax relief for middle income and for most other americans. there will be a major tax reduction.|it will simplify the tax code. it will grow the american economy at a level it hasnt seen for decades.|and all of this does not add to our debt or our deficit.|but i will also be discussing some of that at the end because we have to make much better deals, we have to negotiate much harder, and weve got to|make our economy strong.|changes for individuals will be at levels that you havent seen in a long time.|were going to cut the individual rates from 7 brackets to 4. simplification. 25%, 20%, 10%, and 0%.|if youre single and earn less than $25,000 per year or married and jointly earn less than $50,000 so, very important. if youre single|and earn less than $25,000 or married and jointly earn less than $50,000, youll not pay any income tax nothing.|this eliminates very strongly and quickly the marriage penalty. very unfair penalty.|it eliminates the amt, which is the alternative minimum tax.|it ends the death tax. its a double taxation. a lot of families go through hell over the death tax.|it reduces or eliminates most of the deductions and loopholes available to special interests or to the very rich in other words, its going to|cost me a fortune, which is actually true while preserving charitable giving and mortagage interest deductions. very importantly.|it ends the current tax treatment of carried interest. those are the hedge fund folks that ive been talking about for quite a while. they make a|lot of money. carried interest.|so it ends the current tax treatment of carried interest through speculative partnerships that do not grow businesses or create jobs and are not risking|their own capital.|changes for business now, so important, because its all about business. its all about jobs.|we have 93 million people in this country that are in serious trouble, that want to work; they cant work.|so for business, no business of any size from a fortune 500 company to a mom and pop shop to a freelancer living from gig to gig will pay more than 15%|of their business income in taxes. big reduction.|a one-time deemed repatriation of corporate cash held overseas at significantly discount which coming back at a significantly discount 10%. so it|comes back discounted at a 10% tax rate and ends the deferral of taxes on corporate income earned abroad.|now, its called corporate inversion. its a huge subject.|ive been watching politicians now for years all talk, no action politicians. ive been watching them for years talking about bringing|this money back.|the number is probably $2.5 trillion.|everybody agrees it should come back republicans, democrats, everybody.|they cant make a deal. they dont know how to go about making a deal.|the reason companies arent bringing it back is the tax is onerous. it doesnt make sense to bring it back.|and in fact, many companies are leaving the united states. theyre leaving our shores to go and collect their money.|theyre going actually moving out of the united states for two reasons the taxes are too high and because they have tremendous amounts of|money that they cant bring back into this country when everybody wants them to bring it back in.|its called leadership.|we will have that money brought back in.|as an example, i have millions of dollars overseas. i cant bring it back into this country. we filed papers. weve been doing this for a year|and a half. we cant get it back in.|so the money stays in other countries and thats what happens. not good for us.|the level of leadership that we need to get things like this done is so important. but this is something and ive been watching it for a long|time everybody agrees to.|we also reduce or eliminate some business loopholes many of them actually and deductions made unnecessary or redundant by the new lower tax|rate on business income.|the tax rate now is so low that a lot of these deductions which are complicated, which dont make sense, and which are unfair are gone.|and we phase in a reasonable cap on the deductability of the business interest expense.|so we are going to give you we have a very complex set of papers that actually if you know business is not so complex. and were going to hand|them out right now to the press.|and i think youll see we have an amazing code. it will be simple. it will be easy. it will be fair.|its graduated. as you get up in income, you pay a little more.|some of the very unfair deductions that certain people have been given who make a lot of money will not be available any longer.|but i actually believe theyll do better because i think the economy will grow. it will grow rapidly. and well have something very special.|now, with all of that being said and before we take some questions, we have to cut the costs of whats going on in this country.|if you look at what were doing and the money were spending. i read where a washer you know what a washer is? nuts, bolts, and washer|to send from one state to another, it was a 19 set washer and it cost $900,000 and some odd dollars to send it from here to there.|and there are many examples. hammers that cost $800 that you can buy in the store for a tiny amount of money.|we will run this country properly. there is so much money to be saved.|were reducing taxes but at the same time if i win, if i become president, we will be able to cut so much money and have a better country.|we wont be losing anything other than well be balancing budgets and getting them where they should be.|so, this is a plan thats simple, thats a major reduction. i think people are going to be very happy. weve already had some very good|reviews.|i did the plan with some of the leading scholars and economists and tax experts that there are in this country. they love it; they say "why hasnt|this been done before?"|and this is my wheelhouse. thats what i do well.|the economy is what i do well. whenever they do polls, i always come out way above everybody else on the economy and on leadership, by the way, but i|wont say that.|so, if anybody has thank you. thats amazing. thats some of the press was actually clapping. ive never saw i|dont think ive ever seen that before.|all right. why dont we take some questions from the press?|no, im not going to do that yet but we have their approval. but we have some of the top people in the country worked on this.|well, were looking at a 3% but we think it can be 5%, it could even be 6%. were going to have growth that will be tremendous.|and by the way, if we have more than 3%, these numbers are really spectacular.|and one of the things that they dont take into account in any big league fashion is the cutting. there is so much waste in government and i believe|when i get in there ill be able to cut without losing anything to cut tremendous amounts off of the and were not even showing anything|for that.|so, theyre very conservative numbers.|my taxes will first of all, ill have a much simpler tax statement. it will be much simpler.|when i do my return, it will be much my return go up to the ceiling and beyond, which is ridiculous. and you spend millions of dollars at a high|level on lawyers, accountants, and everything else.|we want to simplify them to a tremendous level.|the bracket of 25% the big difference is many of the loopholes and many of the deductions which are all theyve been there for years|are antiquated in many cases.|or are put there because a lot of the people that get these deductions are contributed to hillary, theyre contributing to bush. theyre|contributing to every candidate but trump. because im not taking any money. im self-funding. and these people want these deductions.|there will be people were reducing taxes. but believe me, there will be people in the very upper eschelons that wont be thrilled with|this.|were taking away deductions and thats one of the reasons were able to lower it.|this is actually a tax reduction. a big tax reduction, including for the upper income.|i believe that the economy will do so well that even though they wont be getting certain deductions which arent fair for them to be getting|that theyll end up doing better.|i just think this is a common sense approach. you know, we could say supply side. you could say theres 15 different names given out for different|kinds of deductions or increases. i dont think its supply side or anything else.|i think this is a common sense, well thought out tax proposal thats going to trigger the economy, going to make everybody go back and really want|to work.|its going to create tremendous numbers of jobs.|one of the other things that im coupling this with is if i become president, im going to renegotiate our trade deals. because our trade deals|are not sustainable by this country. not sustainable.|we cannot continue to let our jobs go to all of the different countries. theres not a country that we negotiate with that doesnt make a better|deal. everybody.|we lose money with everything.|im also going to renegotiate some of our military costs. because we protect south korea, we protect germany, we protect some of the wealthiest|countries in the world saudi arabia we protect everybody. we protect everybody.|and we dont get reimbursement. we lose on everything. we lose on everything.|so, were going to negotiate and renegotiate trade deals, military deals, many other deals thats going to get the costs down for running our|country very significantly. im not showing a big number in that. but i believe that if i become president, those numbers are going to be massive.|as an example, saudi arabia. they make $1 billion a day. we protect them.|so we need help.|were losing a tremendous amount of money on a yearly basis and we owe $19 trillion.|i used to say $18 trillion for the last 6, 7 months; now its $19 trillion and its only going up.|well, no, look. senator rubio is a lightweight. we understand that. he wouldnt be able to do this. he wouldnt know a trade deal from|any other deal and what certain people are trying to do is theyre trying to take we just went up in the last poll. we went up two points in|the last poll, and we continue to go up.|in the nbc poll, i think we went from 26% to 29%. were going up very strongly in the polls. they dont know what to do about it.|ive built a great company. youll see that in 60 minutes last night. i built a great company. its a phenomenal company with very little|debt, tremendous cash flow.|im funding my own campaign.|guys like rubio, i mean, he desperately needs money. ask the car dealer in florida. ask the people that support him.|and a guy like rubio and others i dont want to single him out; youre singling him out but theyre largely controlled by their|donors, the special interests, and frankly more than anybody else, the lobbyists.|ive turned down millions of millions of dollars from lobbyists and special interests because its not the right thing. its just not right.|and that seems to be resonating very strongly.|i negotiate. its true. i get bills from people; ill negotiate. oh, is that a bad thing? the country should do that.|yeah, i would. id bring that same attitude to the white house. its true.|she says i have a habit when you get a bill, youd call up and you negotiate. to me, thats a compliment.|no, i want to take that thinking to the white house. i would bet you we could save 20% of our budget. i could even save more. but we could save a|tremendous amount.|that has to be the attitude our country has. you cant spend millions and millions of dollars on doing something that you can do for $2,000.|you know, when you look at costs, we just spent $1 million building a soccer field. okay? a soccer field for our prisoners that happen to be in|guantanamo. okay? i dont like that. what do you need $1 million for? level out the surface, let them play if they had to play at all. okay?|what do you need to spend $1 million.|we just spent its a story today. $1 million on a soccer field. how do you spend $1 million doing a soccer field? you have a level piece of|land. throw them a ball if they have to play soccer if they have to play at all. why are they playing soccer is my question.|no, its too long. you dont have time. you dont have time.|no, not at all. were lowering taxes, which republicans love.|and i think one of the reasons i am doing so well in the polls and one of the reasons im doing so well when it comes to the economy in all polls is|that this is the thinking.|no, were lowering taxes very substantially. were simplifying. and were getting rid of deductions that are actually obselete that certain|people want to keep for certain reasons.|so, no, thats not true.|well, putin was interviewed and i was interviewed last night. i thought his interview i though charlie rose did an excellent job. but i thought|his was a softer interview.|scott pelley interviewed me. i thought scott was terrific. i mean, it was a tough interview but i thought he was very fair and i thought the piece was|very good.|why is he harder on me than putin? i would say because putin is a nicer person than i am.|the worst in 36 years. well, its a good question and you can connect the dots. but i guess it has been probably since 04. you know, youre|talking about 10, 11, 12 years that people have wanted to bring the money back into the country.|and again its called corporate inversion and in a lot of time corporations are moving out and theyre going to other countries, taking jobs.|and now, we have a really big problem because we have serious companies very large, very prestigious companies as you know obviously you|know something about business. but we have major companies looking to move out of the united states.|you know, it used to be theyd move from new york to florida. theyd move from new jersey to texas. or whatever.|now, theyre talking about moving from the united states to ireland and to england and to other places, to spain where they get treated differently|and frankly better.|and theyre doing that for a number of reasons but one of the reasons one of the big reasons as you know is taxes. one of the other|reasons is to get all of this cash that theyve built up and they cant get back into our country.|and when this money comes back into our country that everybody wants, its going to be put to work in our country, largely. it can go other places.|but largely.|and i think it will be an amazing boon.|now, heres the other thing. they think its $2.5 trillion. i think its much more than that.|i actually think its going to be more money than that. and boy if it is, we have hit pay dirt.|well, you know when you end the repatriation, when you get the money coming back in beyond, tremendous things happen.|well, ill be announcing that in the not too distant future.|but i will tell you. ive been honest. im the only one thats honest about this thing.|i watched romney. i watched all "oh, i pay so much tax. i pay so much tax." i watched all politicians and they say "i pay "|i fight like hell to pay as little as possible. can i say that? im not a politician.|i fight like hell always because its an expense.|and you know, i feel i fight. i have the best lawyers and the best accountants and i fight. and i pay. but its an expense.|and frankly, i would feel differently if this country was spending the money wisely instead of throwing it out the drain.|our country spends our money so stupidly and i will tell you that i could speak for myself i pay a lot of tax but i fight like hell to make it as low as|possible. but i would feel a lot differently if our leadership was such that i respected the decisions.|all you have to do is look at a list of the things that our government is spending money on right now and you dont feel so good about our country.|ill tell you what in terms of income inequality, were going to create a lot of jobs.|you know, right now, we have a false 5.4%, 5.3%, 5.6% every month its different.|its such a phony number. because when people look and look and look and then they give up looking for a job, theyre taken off the roll. so the|number isnt reflective.|ive seen numbers of 24%. i actually saw a number of 42% unemployment. 42%.|and it could be because when youre looking for a job and you go around and you look and you look and you find it, you want to work and you want to|take care of your family and then you cant get the job you know what im talking about because youre shaking your head and you|cant get the job, essentially for statistically purposes you are considered employed.|so then i read every time it comes out i hear 5.3% unemployment. that is the biggest joke there is in this country.|that number is so false.|and you know, people ask "how come trump is doing so well? and carson and others? how come theyre doing -?" you know why theyre doing well?|because people are tired of political speak. theyre tired of that.|and the worst example of it one of the worst example of it is the phony unemployment rate.|the unemployment rate is probably 20%. but i will tell you you have some great economists that will tell you its 30%, 32%. and the highest ive|heard so far is 42%.|theres anger out there at the job picture.|now, one of the things with that being said, china, japan, mexico, brazil, these countries are all taking our jobs like were a bunch of|babies.|that will stop. people will treat us fairly if i become president.|were losing our jobs. were losing our base. were losing our manufacturing.|all of that will stop.|well, this is number one a simplification. number two, what im really doing is the big picture because corporations now are going to start having|an incentive to create jobs. theyre going to have an incentive also to stay in this country.|well, if they provide bigger dividends, people are going to have more money to spend. so thats not so bad either.|if a corporation gives out a bigger dividend, thats great. mr. jones gets a bigger dividend, hes going to have more money to spend in the|economy. so thats good.|i know nothing about that.|no, im not a populist. no, im not. im a man of great common sense. im a man thats built a tremendous company with the best|locations in real estate, the best everything. youre here at one of them. i have many of these.|ive done a great job. ive employed tens of thousands of people. i employ now thousands and thousands of people. ive done a good job.|but i wouldnt say populist at all. i would say im a man of common sense.|im cutting taxes. im going to create a lot of jobs. im going to get rid of a tremendous amount of waste.|and ill tell you what. the waste that i get rid of the waste that i get rid of is going to have a huge impact and im not even|putting that in my numbers so i think its going to be terrific.|yes, the motor industry. thats a beautiful way of describing it the motor industry.|where are you from? england? i love them. oh, what a beautiful accent.|no, i want to get the industry we call it the automobile industry.|but i want to get the automobile industry to build factories here.|as you know, ford is building $2.5 billion factory in mexico.|mexico also took a big plant out of tennessee and tennessee thought they were going to get it and they didnt.|i want the motor companies, as you would say, or the automobile companies to build their plants in the united states.|i dont want nabisco leaving for mexico or any place else.|i want these companies not to leave chicago, not to leave michigan, not to leave new hampshire and iowa and south carolina and all of these places where|theyre leaving and theyre going to other countries.|i want them to stay here and they will stay here and theyll be so happy.|ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. its been a great honor. thank you.|autism has become an epidemic.|25 years ago, 35 years ago, you look at the statistics. not even close.|it has gotten totally out of control.|i am totally in favor of vaccines but i want smaller doses over a longer period of time.|because you take a baby in and ive seen it and ive seen it and i had my children taken care of over a long period of time, over a two or|three year period of time, same exact amount. but you take this little beautiful baby and you pump i mean, it looks just like its meant for a|horse not for a child.|and weve had so many instances people that work for me just the other day two years old, two and a half years old, a child a|beautiful child went to have the vaccine and came back and a week later got a tremendous fever, got very, very sick, now is autistic.|i only say im in favor of vaccines. do them over a longer period of time. same amount but just in little sections.|and i think youre going to have i think youre going to see a big impact on autism.|boy, oh, boy. i didnt expect that. you know, joe and the group called and they said "would you come|over and speak?"|im here for a certain reason. you know, its called tomorrow night. so i got here and they asked a couple of days ago if it would possible to|come over and say a few words. an endorsement from your group with so many veterans hundreds of thousands of veterans i really appreciate|that, joe. i did not expect that.|i didnt expect it. i didnt ask for it.|i will say this: i am with the veterans 100%. theyre our greatest people. theyre being treated terribly.|not only the number of deaths, which are obviously thats whats going on is incredible.|but as of two weeks ago on wednesday, the vets had the longest wait in the history of the veterans administration. you go in to see a doctor, you wait|for days, for days.|and its not going to happen. not going to happen. if i win, believe me, its not going to happen.|and one of the things i thought id do and id stress so strongly the veterans hospitals obviously they have problems. theyre|not properly run.|and when you have to wait long hours and long days and then in some cases have the doctor say "im sorry. im going on vacation", believe me, it|doesnt get much worse than that.|so were going to create a whole new system. were going to take this system apart.|and if theyre not doing the job, the veterans are going to go to private doctors, private hospitals, public hospitals, and were going to|reimburse those doctors and those hospitals.|and youre going to get the greatest service of any veterans in any country because you deserve it. and thats going to be broken down into|something thats going to be very special.|right now and you know it we have illegal immigrants that are treated better by far than our veterans. its not going to happen anymore.|its not going to happen.|so, joe, i just really appreciate it. so unexpected.|to be here is an honor. they dont build ships like this anymore, folks. you know? we dont do them this way anymore.|i actually said what about recommissioning look at this thing. the largest guns in the world. the most powerful guns. i learned about the iowa.|by the way, iowa is a great place for a lot of reasons. you know? we have been treated so well in the state of iowa. its been incredible. number|one on the polls and we love those people. theyre great.|so this is a great ship and thats a great state.|i just want to say that were going to come out with some plans in a very short time.|were going to be building up our military. were going to make our military so big and so strong and so great.|and it will be so powerful that i dont think were going to ever have to use it. nobodys going to mess with us. that i can tell you.|and were going to have a president whos respected by putin, whos respected by iran.|you know, lets talk about for two seconds, lets talk about the iran deal.|now, obama and his people call him the supreme leader of iran. obama talks about the supreme leader. well, im not calling him a supreme leader.|but he said the other day that after this rip-off deal is completed, he will never touch, do business with the united states again. "were finished|with the united states."|theyre taking $150 billion. theyre getting a deal thats going to go right into nuclear weapons much sooner than you think.|theyre going to self-police think about that one they are going to go and self-police.|theyve got the 24-day they have 24-day provisions. and by the way, what people dont understand the 24-day provision doesnt|start you know this, right? it doesnt start for a long time before you even get to it. the clock is ticking. it can take forever. we may|never get it there.|it is one of the dumbest deals and one of the weakest contracts ive ever seen of any kind.|so, we are going to do things and this country right.|were not going to sign deals where we have four prisoners over there and theres still there and we dont even ask for them.|one of them is there because hes a christian. we have a writer. we have the whole thing is absolutely insane.|you know, they asked the president, and they asked secretary of state kerry who maybe you know, ive been saying hillary clinton is the worst|secretary of state in the history of this country. right? all right. ive been saying it. but its possible the world blew up around her.|it blew up. just blew up. the whole world is like a different place.|its possible that because of this deal made by secretary kerry who has absolutely no clue how to negotiate, it may that hes going to|supersede. and i understand that he may want to run for president. he has no chance like she has no chance.|so were going to see what happens.|we have many problems in our country. one of them is immigration.|now, i took a tremendous hit when i brought up illegal immigration when i announced i was running for president.|and for two weeks, i said you know, rush limbaugh hes a great guy he said "he has suffered more incoming" meaning the press|"than anybody ive seen."|so what happened is you have now found out what illegal immigration is all about and i am so happy that im the one that brought it to the fore|because believe me, its a big problem. it is a big problem.|so you remember for about two weeks, i said, "boy this is tougher than i thought running for president." and then you found out theres tremendous|crime. theres tremendous drugs pouring across the border. tremendous. beyond. going to chicago, going to new york, going to la, going all over our|country.|so the drugs pour in and the money pours out. not a good deal. we get the drugs, they get the money. the drug cartels are going wild. they cannot|believe how stupid our government is.|they are making a fortune. the drugs come in. the money goes out daily. and i saw it because i was on the border. i was there. and we saw it. and|everybody sees it everyday.|and we have the kind of people that can do something about it but we have no leadership. none. none whatsoever.|so, were going to build a wall and mexicos going to pay for the wall, believe me. you know, a lot of politicians have said "oh, theyre|not going to pay". they dont know anything about they never read the art of the deal, first of all.|so heres the story. so heres the story. i said the other day to one of my people "what is the united states trade deficit with mexico,|japan, and china?"|so lets start with china. almost $400 billion a year.|now, if you have a company where youre losing $400 billion, youve got to do something very fast.|we dont. weve been losing hundreds of billions of dollars a year frankly for decades.|not going to happen anymore. not going to happen anymore.|with japan where their massive ships floating right here and they drop off the cars, right? they drop off thousands and thousands and thousands of cars|millions of cars and we sell them beef. we sell them beef.|and they dont want it because their farmers dont want our beef. they protest and they send it back. all right?|its not going to happen that way anymore.|now, with mexico and i love mexico. i have many, many people many, many people from mexico that work with me and they work for me and they|buy my apartments.|same with china. i have so many people. they pay me millions and millions. what am i supposed to hate china because they gave me millions of dollars to|buy an apartment? i dont think so.|i had the largest bank in the world as a tenant. its from china. bigger than any bank in this country by many times. theyre from china.|the problem that we have is that the leaders of mexico, japan, and china and every other country that we do business with, theyre smarter, more|cunning, sharper than our leaders.|i love free trade. the concept is great. but you need smart people.|i have the smartest people in this country lined up. i know the smartest.|i have carl icahn. i have the best business leaders and they all want to do it. theyre wealthy because they make good deals like me. i make good|deals.|you know, its a talent. its a talent. you cant be a politician.|look, im fighting some very nice people. very nice. even though im leading in the polls. but theyre very nice people.|but theyre never going to do anything with these countries. theyre never going to be able to do it. its an instinct. its something|thats special. they dont have it. believe me, they dont have it.|its just going to be more of the same.|so, we are going to make our country so great.|we are going to make it strong. we are going to make it powerful.|were going to rebuild the military. were going to make it so strong.|we are going to take care of our veterans.|and in the end, in the end, i want you people to look around and look at each other because this is going to be a special day.|the other week two weeks ago in mobile, alabama, 31,000 people showed up in a rainy rough day. 31,000 people came to see us speak and were|talking about making america great again.|last night in dallas at the american airlines center, 20,000 people the basketball arena of the mavericks. 20,000 people showed up and i want to|tell you, it was a love fest. everybody think of it, 20,000 people there wasnt one heckler in the whole room. i kept saying,|"theres got to be one."|there was a word two words that used to be used a lot called "silent majority". they stopped using them.|the silent majority, believe me, is back and i think we can use it somewhat different.|i dont think we have to call it a silent majority anymore because theyre not silent. people are not silent.|theyre disgusted with our incompetent politicians.|theyre disgusted with the people that are giving our country away.|theyre disgusted when they tell the border patrol agents who are good people and can do the job.|theyre disgusted when theyre allowed people to just walk right in front of them and theyre standing there helpless and people just pour|into the country.|theyre disgusted when a woman whos nine months pregnant, walks across the border, has a baby, and you have to take care of that baby for the|next 85 years.|theyre disgusted by whats happening to our country.|and youre going to look around and youre going to remember who the people are that are here because were doing something special. this is|a movement. were going to make our country great again.|believe me, we will make our country great again.|i love you all. thank you very much.|thank you very much, everybody. thank you all for being here. this is some turnout. my great honor.|the chairman just left as you probably know and hes been extremely fair. the rnc has been absolutely terrific over the last two month period.|and as you know, thats what ive wanted. i wanted fairness.|i dont have to be treated any differently than anybody else. i just wanted fairness from the republican party.|were leading in every single poll. a new poll came out today where were over 30%. weve actually hit numbers as high as 35% and 40%.|and frankly, ive felt that the absolute best way to win and to beat the democrats and very easily i think beat the democrats no matter who it may|be whether its hillary or anybody else and i think maybe hillary is going to have a very hard time frankly with whats happening getting to the|starting gate, the best way for the republicans to win is if i win the nomination and go directly against whoever they happen to put up.|and for that reason, i have signed the pledge.|so i will be totally pledging my allegiance to the republican party and the conservative principles for which it stands and we will go out and we will|fight hard and we will win. we will win.|and most importantly, we will make our country great again because thats what its all about. we have to make our country great again.|this is a self-funded campaign. we have our heart in it. we have our soul in it. i dont need money and i dont want money.|and this is going to be a campaign like i think no other.|im not controlled by lobbyists. im not controlled by anybody. im controlled by the people of the country in order to make our country|great again.|yeah, i got nothing. i really got nothing.|the question was what did i get for signing the pledge? absolutely nothing. other than the assurance that i would be treated fairly. and ive seen|that over the last two months. they really have been very fair.|no, i have no intention of changing my mind.|well, i think the big thing thats changed is and its been obvious to all number one, after i announced, we went up like a rocket|ship.|nobody thought i was going to run and they said "oh, he wont run and he wont put in his papers. and he wouldnt do all of this."|i did that. the papers in terms of the company turned out to be spectacular. its a great company. i built a great company. and all of the other|papers have turned out to be very well received.|and i think the thing thats changed is the fact that i went to number one place very quickly after i signed and after i in this building notified|everybody that id be running for president.|so i think the biggest thing is that i went early to number one and the rnc has treated me with great respect.|so that was very important.|no, i see no circumstances under which i would tear up that pledge.|well, you dont have to be met when youre at 2%. its one of those things. thats the way life works. and i like gov. christie,|by the way.|well, the chairman asked if he could come up. you saw him. he was here a little while ago. and i was greatly honored that he did come up frankly.|well, i think that when you get right down to it, were a nation that speaks english and i think that while were in this nation, we should be|speaking english. and thats how assimilation takes. and thats how i mean, whether people like it or not thats how we assimilate and|thats how we go on to that next phase and that next stage.|and thats how people that dont speak and im not just talking about spanish; im talking about from various parts of the world|thats how they will become successful and do great.|so i think its more appropriate to be speaking english.|well, one of the things i want to do and i feel very strongly its a country based on borders and our country is based on laws.|and when people come into the country illegally, we should not allow that.|and this is not from south america. this is not from mexico. this is from all over the world.|when people come illegally, we cannot allow that.|and i want people to come legally. i want very much to take care of our border because our southern border is a total mess. thats been proven.|and interestingly, a couple of months ago when i announced, i made some very strong statements about the crime and the problems that were happening and|ive been proven right.|and many of the people in this audience actually have apologized to me, which i very much appreciate. of course, they havent done it publicly but|these are minor details but someday they will.|the fact is that we are a nation that wants and needs borders. were a nation that wants and needs and is based on laws.|and we will make sure that that takes place.|with that being said, i want people to come into our country legally. i want to have a big, fat beautiful open door. i want people of great talent to|come in for silicon valley. i want engineers. i want physicists. i want people with great talent to come into the united states.|when people graduate from college, you can be number one in your class at harvard or number one at yale or the wharton school of finance or princeton or|stanford. and immediately if youre not a citizen of the united states, you get thrown out of the country. we want those people to stay.|we want people of great talent to be in the united states to work here and ultimately to become a citizen.|i dont know enough about it to comment on it. was she jailed? i really dont know much about it.|thats absolutely false. i win at golf. i win at golf. that i can tell you.|well, i understand how the system works maybe better than anybody. i understand the political system and i understand also very much a system for coming|in for illegal immigrants.|dont forget if i didnt bring up the subject of illegal immigration, you wouldnt be asking the question. nobody would be even talking|about immigration. and immigration and in particular illegal immigration has become a very big factor.|now, a lot of bad things have happened with respect to crime since i brought it up.|but if i didnt bring it up, immigration would not even be a subject that were talking about and it happens to be a very important subject.|i have to say this: it can also be a very positive subject because i believe so strongly in immigration and i just we have to stop illegal|immigration and we have to look forward to great immigration done in a legal manner.|but if i didnt bring it up, nobody would be talking about it.|well, there is gridlock in congress right now and thats because theres no leadership at the top. you have to be able to lead. you have to be|able to get people into your office. you have to get people go to them. any way you want to do it. but you have to be able to lead. there is no|leadership at the top.|signing executive orders it not the way our country was supposed to be run.|i dont want to talk about that. its inappropriate.|tom brady? well, tom brady is a very good friend of mine. hes a great guy.|for those of you who dont know him, hes a very honorable and an honest guy and a truly great athlete. he is really a very good friend of mine.|and i just spoke to him a little while ago. hes so thrilled and so happy.|tom brady i think what theyve done is terrible. and hes been exonerated as i understand it because i just heard about it. but im|very happy for tom.|as far as the commissioner is concerned, theyre having a rough year. lets face it. theyre having a very rough year.|well, in europe they have tremendous problems with people going in and storming. and its a huge humanitarian problem.|and i just say this. this united states has tremendous problems of their own. we have infrastructure that we have to fix. we have bridges and roads and|tunnels and everything is falling apart. our nations in such trouble.|thats why being a builder and a great builder and a very successful builder i think will greatly help.|but we have so many of our own problems including the border, including the wall, which we will get built, including all of the things we have |health care, which is a mess.|you know, if you look at obamacare, the premiums have gone up 45%, 50%, 55%. people are saying "this is turning out to be a disaster." deductibles are|through the roof. the deductibles on obamacare its through the roof.|so we have a lot of problems. we have to take care of our vets. we have to build up our military.|just the other day, gen. ordierno said that the army is in the worst shape in its history in terms of preparedness.|now, for them to be in bad shape with the way we are and with the world hating us, and you look at hillary clinton and ive said shes the|worst secretary of state in the history of this country.|now, in all fairness, because of the agreement thats about to be finalized with iran, john kerry may very well take her place.|i think that agreement is a disaster for this country, for israel, for the middle east. its going to lead to nuclear proliferation the 24-day|clause everything about it. we dont even get our prisoners back. you say who negotiates a thing like that?|that wont happen, i can guarantee you, with a president trump.|youll see it later. yeah. they dont want to hear it.|i would say very simply i just want to be treated like everybody else.|you see, i was always the fair hair boy. i was a big contributor. nobody knows the system. but i was on the other side. and i was the elite. i was the|fair hair person.|once i ran, all of a sudden i was a little bit of an outsider. i became an outsider because i was running. because i wasnt supposed to run.|im this businessman that people have given me great credit as being a great businessman. but im not supposed to be running for office.|the fact is that our country is being killed on trade by china, by japan, by mexico both at the border and on trade.|and im not knocking those countries. their leaders are much, much smarter than our leaders. they are absolutely killing us.|china taking our jobs, taking our money, taking our base. and think of this: we owe china $1.4 trillion and were paying them interest.|we owe japan with all of the cars coming in the same amount $1.4 trillion.|now, thats like a magic act. they send the cars in, they take our jobs, they do everything, and we owe them money. thats not going to happen|with me.|well, jeb bush is a very nice man. ill be honest. i think hes a very nice person. i think hes a very low energy person and i|dont think thats what the country needs.|i hear hes going to spend a lot of money on negative ads on me.|and honestly, look, hes getting the money from special interests. hes getting the money from lobbyists and his donors. and theyre making|him do it because hes crashing in the polls.|so i dont know whats going to happen if he spends $20 million or $25 million on negative ads i dont know. i know that my life will|continue. i just dont know. i mean nobodys ever spent money on ads against me. but he probably has to do that although it would not be the way|ive done.|you know, one of the things im most honored about is that so far everybody thats attacked me has gone down the tubes.|you have lindsey graham attacked me. he was at 3%. now hes at zero.|you have perry attacked me. now hes getting out of the race. he was at 4% or 5%. now hes getting out of the race. he was at zero.|everybody rand paul attacked me. i see the last poll the monmouth poll that just came out today where im leading by double figures and|rand paul is down to less than 2% and he attacked me.|now, jeb bush also just went down in the monmouth poll very big.|so i dont know. are they going to spend hes going to spend lobbyist money and special interest money. remember this they have|total control over jeb and hillary and everybody else that takes that money.|nobody knows the system better than me. they have total control.|you understand it very well because youve been covering it for a long time. those people that are putting up those millions of dollars have total|control over your candidate.|i will tell you this: nobodys putting up millions of dollars for me. im putting up my own money.|in fact, i feel a little bit foolish. people are offering me millions and millions of dollars. you know, when youre in first place, you can collect|so much money and i keep turning them down. i feel like am i a fool? i feel very foolish.|and when i was in iowa last week, i said "what do you think? can i take " one man offered me a big lobbyist offered $5 million for my|campaign. i said to the crowd in iowa great crowd, 4,000 people i said "can i take it? and would you believe im not going to do|anything? i promise you. i swear to you i wont do anything." and they all stood up and said "no, no, dont take it."|the fact is im the only self-funder. im putting up my own money.|i know there have been some super pacs 5 or 6 super pacs where people are forming super pacs for trump. i have nothing to do with them. as|you know, youre not allowed to have anything to do with them. so i dont know what theyre going to do.|hopefully, if theyre going to do something its going to be nice. but i dont know anything about them.|but just in a nutshell, im funding my own campaign. nobody elses.|when people advertise and i hope the voters can see this. every negative ad they see about me is paid for by lobbyists and special interests. so|just remember that.|our country could be doing much better. we have deficits that are enormous. we have all bad trade agreements. we have an army that the heads said is not|prepared. we have a military that needs help and especially in these times.|we have nuclear weapons that you look at 60 minutes they dont even work. okay? if anybody saw that report. the phones dont work. theyre|40 years old. they have wires that are no good.|nothing works. our country doesnt work.|everybody wins except us. we need victories in this country. we dont have victories any more.|our country will be great again, but right now our country has major problems.|i think its great that shes in the debate. i was in favor of her being i think she should be in the debate.|i dont like the fact that there are 11 people now as i understand it. theyre not getting rid of rand paul or somebody. but i think they should|because theres too many people.|because when you have 11, youre not getting to hear me and youre not getting to hear other people talking and i think thats too bad. i|think 11 is a lot of people.|but i was very happy that she got into the debate because frankly she deserves to be in the debate.|i think maybe hes inclined not to get in the race. i think its going to depend on what happens with hillary clinton.|a lot of people think that she will not be able to make it legally from a criminal standpoint to the starting gate. i dont know that to be true.|but i think it depends on what happens with her.|i think if she gets out, he will get in. i think if she stays in, he might not.|who knows?|oh, hes not supposed to be here because he was here, he was up in my office and he got the pledge and were very happy about that. we dont|want anything and i told him. i said, "i dont know if its appropriate reince for you to be here because i dont want anything |" you know, you guys will end up saying hes endorsing trump.|so i suggested frankly that im fine with him not being here because i dont want anybody to think hes endorsing.|as far as jeb is concerned, i watched him this morning on television and its a little bit sad.|dont forget. he was supposed to win. and he just doesnt have the energy.|but what he does have is a lot of money that was given to him again by special interests, donors, and lobbyists.|and i just hope that if he spends money on ads, which he may not if i were him, id spend money on positive ads about himself. because if he|knocks me, assuming people leave and maybe theyre at a point where theyre not going to leave because theyre fed up with whats|happening in this country, but i think theyre going to go to people other than jeb.|i dont know. right now, im interested in jobs. one thing one of the groups, it was actually cnn. i shouldnt say that. but they did|a very massive poll and i came out number one in leadership, number one on the economy, number one in jobs producing.|and i dont mean by number one. i mean like number one by many, many times. and i am so intent on putting people back to work in this country.|you know, we have 93 million people that are not in the workforce right now. 93 million.|when they give up looking for a job, they take them off of the stats. they take them off the statistics. we have 93 million people.|we have 50 million people between poverty levels and welfare and all.|our country can be great again. we have to put people back to work.|would i bring my children into the administration? i will tell you they are very capable. the answer is probably not. but having them in would be very|good. theyre very, very capable children.|the second part i wont bother asking you. its no longer pertinent.|kanye west? you know what? ill never say bad about him. you know why? because he loves trump. he loves trump. he goes around saying "trump is my|all-time hero." he says it to everybody.|so, kanye west i love him. now, maybe in a few years ill have to run against him. i dont know. so ill take that back.|but hes been so nice to me.|you people have sort of seen because ive been a counter-puncher. i only hit people when they hit me. only. and kanye west has been so great. i|would never say bad about him because he says such nice things about me.|no, my supporters are really supporting me because im very competent, because they know that im not going to let china rip us off. im not|going to let japan rip us off.|japan is devaluing their yen. very hard for caterpillar and other companies to compete against komatsu their big tractor maker and others.|were not going to let this happen anymore.|they do you talk about a trade imbalance. they have in japan the biggest ships youve ever seen pouring cars into los angeles, pouring them|in. ive never seen anything like it. we send them beef and they dont even want it.|its going to end and theyre going to like us.|in this building, i have the largest bank in the world. right up these elevators. its a bank from china. by far the biggest bank in the world.|i get along great with china. i get along great with japan. i get along great with mexico.|i love the people. i love the people of mexico. i love the hispanics. i have thousands of hispanics right now working for me. over the years, i have|employed tens of thousands of hispanics many from mexico. i have unbelievably great relationships.|and in the package that we gave you, youll see theres a poll and im number one with hispanics. you saw that. number one with hispanics.|so, look, for our country to be great, we have to be able to make great deals. were going to be great to the vets. were going to be terrific.|our military is going to be unbelievable.|all of these things were going to get rid of obamacare and come up with something thats much better and much less expensive. were|going to get rid of it. were going to repeal it. its going to be out. should have been out a long time ago. should have never happened.|but we are going to take care of our country and we are going to bring back jobs and were going to bring back wealth to the united states so we can|afford to save social security, which ill save without cuts, so that we can afford to do the kind of things that we have to do to make america|great again.|ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. and here is your pledge.|im going to tell you a story about nashville. youre not even going to believe it. but its a very personal story. its a very|special place to me for a very special reason.|but maybe more importantly, we have an incredible woman with us. shes 92 years old. we dont talk about age but shes 92. and she looks|magnificent. and her name is beada and shes become very famous. you know who beada is, right?|beada, where are you beada? look at her. so beautiful.|so, she just registered to vote for the first time in her life. she hasnt seen anybody that really did it to her. and for the first time in her|life she just registered to vote and shes going to vote for trump. i think, right?|thank you, darling. i really appreciate it. you know, shes become so famous. shes on television all over the world now.|i have to be nervous even talking to her, youre so famous. its great.|beada, thank you very much. i really appreciate it and everybody appreciates it.|because there is a big, big growing like leaps and bounds silent majority out there and were going to take this country back and were going to|make this country so great again and so strong again.|well, i just want to tell you about nashville. so, years ago many years ago like i hate to say 40 but i wont say 40 but close to|40, i came to nashville. did you ever hear of a company called genesco? genesco. right? so, they were based in nashville, tennessee, and they owned the|bonwit teller department store chain.|and i was a young guy and i came from brooklyn in queens, and i wanted to go into manhattan. and i went into manhattan and i did the grand hyatt hotel|and i did some other things that were good.|but the thing i wanted more than anything was fifth avenue between 57th and 56th street, which is called the tiffany location right next to tiffany. and|thats what i wanted. i wanted that piece of property so badly.|i shouldnt say that because youre not supposed to want things like that so badly. god will get angry at me, right?|but i wanted it so badly and the company that owned it was genesco based in nashville, tennessee.|and i came in and i came to nashville, and i met with the heads of genesco who were really great people actually. and they were having a lot of|difficulties. there were a lot of fighting and a lot of everything.|and i convinced them to sell me the land and the building. and i bought the bonwit teller store fifth avenue from 57th to 56th street surrounding|tiffany. i bought all the air rights and then ultimately i bought the air rights from tiffany and i built trump tower. and to this day its one of|the great buildings of the world and its one of the great successes.|and i love country music and i went to the grand ole opry while i was here. and i just had such an incredible experience.|and when it came down to speaking because we could speak at a lot of places you know, when youre leading in every poll, they sort of want|you. when youre not leading in the polls, like so many of these guys, they dont want you at all.|and well talk about the polls in a second.|but i had a lot of choices for this morning, and i guess i could have also gone and played golf like the president does all the time, right? but i|decided lets do this.|and i really chose nashville because the experience is one of my its not my biggest deal but in terms of a deal its so important and|its been such a great from the day i built it it was a home run. and it all really took place because of nashville, tennessee. so, i really|its an honor to be with you folks, i can tell you. real honor.|so, coming over i heard and i watched television you know, they have all these cameras back there and theyre live. and i guess were live|on cnn, were live on so many different things. its always difficult. you know, when youre always live, youve got to change up your|speech. you cant make the speech over and over|the other candidates dont get covered live ever, except for the debate.|so you know, they had 24 million people on the debate. now they think when the new numbers come out theyll be even substantially higher than that.|so i wouldve said they would have had a million or two. so i say they have 24 million people. and i say, well now the second debate, which is on|cnn that was on fox, maybe i should ask for a lot of money and give the money to charity. does that make sense? all to charity. all to charity.|when i said that to the writers at time magazine, they were nice enough to put me on the cover with actually a nice story. and i said, you know, and i|sort of thought i said it off the record but they put it in time magazine. so now maybe should i ask for charity, maybe a nice nashville charity|and american cancer society and aids research so many of this theres so many good alzheimers you know, theres so|many things going on. maybe i should ask for a lot of money or im not showing up.|you know, its interesting. so theyll get 2 million a million to 2 million people at the debates. you know, theyve been doing them|for a long time. they dont do great, especially the early republican debate. like you know the expression it draws flies? thats what it|draws.|so this was one of the biggest shows in the history of cable television. i think it might have been the biggest in terms of political in the history of|cable television.|naturally i took full credit for it, which in all fairness i should. i should.|so bottom line i think i might ask for a lot of money for charity but you know. but i did say is it a little hokey if i do that? maybe its not so|nice. so what do you think? should i do it or not? maybe not. i dont know.|heres the thing. if i dont do it, cnn just makes a lot of money. i dont care about cnn. honestly. no, theyre going to make a lot of|money. they just shut off their camera.|theyre actually very nice.|but theyre going to make a lot of money and, you know, its something we should consider. so well all consider it together.|but coming over today, i saw that they were having the illegal immigrants come in and somebody mentioned the term the dreamers having to do with|children and, you know, the dreams of children. and these are people who come over to the country and theyre dreamers.|and i said, "what about our children?" why cant our children that are in the country, why cant they be the dreamers? nobody ever talks about|that. no, no, nobody ever talks about that.|you know, we talk about the dreamers, we talk about illegal immigrants, who by the way are treated better than our vets.|you know, our vets are incredible. no, no, the illegal immigrants in many casesare treated better than our veterans who are the greatest people we|have our wounded warriors are these are the greatest people we have.|and another thing nice about being able to make speeches without having to hire some guy to write and keep writing and reading it and put a teleprompter|then say, "good morning ladies and gentlemen. nashville, its wonderful " you know, is that i can sort of be very current. okay? i can be|very, very current. i can talk about whats happening.|this morning on the television, they had a whole story about the veterans administration and the hospitals how people are waiting on lines to get in.|these are our veterans. these are the people that got hurt fighting for us. maybe we wouldnt be here if it wasnt for them, to be honest with|you. i mean, thats possible too.|they had a story this morning on fox, on cnn and a number of them where the veterans are just treated terribly and they showed a desk where theres|supposed to be people behind this desk and they showed this desk and theres nobody there. and the veterans i dont know, probably some of|you saw it, the veterans are saying "where are the people?"|and then, they said, "what happened?" and they said, "this happens all the time." there was not even nobody even there! and two weeks ago on|wednesday, they had the longest wait in the history in the history of the veterans administration for people wanting to see a doctor.|when i go to a doctor, if i have to wait like 9 minutes, im like "get me " id go crazy. its true.|remember the old days when the doctor used to come to your house? right?|beada remembers that. youd have a cold. the doctor would come over carrying a little bag like this big, beautiful little bag, being at the top. and|hed come over to your house, check you out, fine. those days dont exist anymore.|you know, were in age of obamacare where nothing exists.|by the way, we will repeal and replace obamacare. that i can tell you. that i can tell you.|but, so two weeks ago wednesday, the longest wait in the history of the veterans administration. so that if you go to the doctors office, men and|women are waiting four days, three days, one was five days.|one case was five days or six days, finally got to see the doctor and the doctor excused himself because he was going on vacation.|now, you think about that. can you imagine waiting even a day or a half a day? but these people are waiting four, five days.|so the waits now the longest in history and thats the way were treating our greatest people and thats not right and were going|to change that. were going to change that.|we have right now and people dont know this. you know, they see these phony statistics put out by politicians basically. all talk, no action|politicians. and i mean on both sides in all fairness.|you know, im a republican. im a conservative. but im just as angry with the republicans because they go to washington, something happens|they become weak. you know, they go to washington "were going to stop obamacare. were going to stop this. were going to do|this. were going to do that."|then they walk into these magnificent buildings with those incredible vaulted ceilings, and they go "oh, i made it, darling, i made it. i vote for you.|i vote for you. i vote for obamacare expansions. ill do whatever you want me to do. im in washington."|its amazing. isnt it amazing? dont you agree?|i wont happen to me, i promise.|and if it does, you can let me know about it. but it wont. i promise. i promise.|but you know, they show those phony statistics where were 5.4% unemployment. 5.4%. the real number. you know, i actually saw a number it could be|42%, okay, believe it or not.|but when you think about it, we have 93 million people that are right now out of the labor force. 93 million people. of the 93 many of these people want|jobs. and they quit looking.|so if youre looking for a job and you cant find it and you stop for a while you know, after a while you sort of like "its not|happening. its not going to happen." i dont know what they do. but they stop. they are considered statistically employed. okay?|so, we have 93 million people out of the labor force. i mean, think about it. its hard to believe.|we have 50 million people in poverty. these are very new numbers. 50 million people in poverty. taking our money.|japans taking our money.|mexico is beating us at the border and on trade. by the way, theyre killing us on trade. you know that.|in fact, you just lost a big car plant to mexico in tennessee. remember? recently front page wall street journal. a plant that you were going to|have|you know this is a movement, folks. this is not like maybe even about me. i dont want it to be about me. this is about common sense. its about|doing the right thing.|one of the things that came out in the poll, which was really amazing. some of the polls, i mean, hey, in iowa, were leading big. those are great|people. we just left iowa. we had such an amazing evening. 4,000 people in a room that never had that many people and it was a happening.|we just left alabama, which was unbelievable. 31,000 people in a stadium, and it was supposed to pour. and it did. it poured the minute my speech |thats like luck. thats from god. the minute the speech was over, we got it and it poured. we had 31,000 people and it was the most|unbelievable.|and the poll just came out in alabama, leading big in alabama. leading big in iowa. leading tremendously big in new hampshire. great people. leading|really big in new hampshire.|leading big in florida. how about florida? i have a governor. we have a low energy governor and we have a senator and were leading big in florida.|how do you do that when you have a senator whos sitting, you have a governor whos been there for eight years and trump ? i love florida|and im there a lot. what could be in florida? great weather. you have great weather but florida has great weather. big advantage.|but you know, im leading big in florida.|but one of the polls came out because in south carolina and north carolina, im leading really big.|and in south carolina, a poll came out and we had a statement that my level of popularity or favorability you know, im the only one that can|get a poll and it comes out and these guys in the back with all those red lights on will say i think i had one poll where im 41% almost|41% can you imagine? 41%. theres 17 people. so im at 41% with 17 people and they said "trumps at 41% but look" you cant|even hear it. you know, "trump says bleh". nobody knows what they just said.|"but there are some people that dont like him."|its unbelievable. im the only one that wins these polls and i get negative publicity. no, its incredible. the press, ayeyayay.|well, yesterday, you might have seen me. i was in south carolina. i made a speech. i had to bring it up.|the new york times to me is a big deal. you know, im from new york. very liberal paper but thats okay. you know, not everybody could be like|us. but its still the new york times. right? we have to admit, still the new york times.|and im on the front page a lot on the new york times, and to be on the front page of the new york times is a big deal.|but yesterday or two days ago, they had story about me and they had some low level hispanic commentator. low level guy. this one didnt like me.|by the way, i think im going to win the hispanic vote and i think you know, in nevada, i won the hispanic poll. they love me.|i love the hispanic people. incredible energy. incredible people. i love the people. i have so many i have thousands that work for me and|thousands and thousands over the years and have worked for me. theyre great people.|and i said, "im going to win". and a lot of the hispanics that are here legally, they dont want people coming in illegally. you know its|true. its true.|so theres this poll that comes out. i think it was in south carolina where were way up and lindsey at 4% and hes the senator. im at|30%. so i wrote him a note, "congratulations. im only beating you in your home state by 26 points."|so anyways, who cares.|but they did something that nobody reported. they say, "oh but do people like trump?" by the way, this election is not going to be like.|i think im a nice person. i love people. i want to help people.|womens health issues to me are very important. to jeb bush it wasnt important because he didnt want to fund them. and then he said, "oh,|i misspoke."|but you know, i really want to be a nice person and i am a nice person.|but i think its actually going to be an election based on competence. were tired of being like the patsy for everybody. i really do. i think|its time.|but in the poll, this was the monmouth poll. big poll. highly re "in another act of political magictrump managed to flip his favorability|rating from negative" nobody wrote this by the way. nobody said it. nobody reported it. "from negative to positive."|this is an exact quote. i have like this photographic memory so i dont need but i want to be sure because if i used the word "the"|incorrectly, theyll say, "he didnt "|"favorability rating from negative to positive in one poll during the span of a month". a feat that monmouth universitys patrick murrays|highly respected pollster called "astounding".|called it "astounding." nobody else wrote about it.|"that defies any rule in presidential politics that ive ever seen," said this highly respected man.|murray, the director of the polling institute, said he flipped it from 20% to 52% in one month and he said that hes never seen that before.|and you know what? thats because people have heard me and they say "youre such a nice person." no, they want they say hes a man|ive made a tremendous amount of money. ive had tremendous success. and i dont say that braggingly. thats the kind of thinking|we need in the country. i mean, whatever it is.|but to me, that statement was more important than actually literally killing everybody in the poll. we were much, much higher, more than double|everybody.|and we are more than double everybody.|you saw the quinnipiac just came out and that was an amazing poll. i was the same thing. much, much higher double and triple and quadruple many of|these candidates.|and the reason is people in this country are smart. they dont believe a lot of what they see in the media because if you believe these people |you know, why are they doing this? i mean, why are they even saying it?|youd think that if somebodys good for the country and ill be great for the country because im going to make great deals for|our country. we dont win anymore. our country doesnt win anymore.|youd think somebody even a liberal person or a democrat liberal and i mean, really liberal. somebody whos going to make the country|why are they knocking it? why are they knocking? why do they fight?|youd think theyd say "lets do it. its good. its good for all of us."|because our country is in trouble. we owe now $19 trillion. you know, ive been saying $18 for a while now. but now it starts to go up|quickly.|and by the way, when obamacare kicks in, which is really kicking in in 16, you want to see bad deficits? you want to see it go up? youre going|to really see it go up because that has a huge negative impact not only on jobs but on the deficit itself because of the costs. and its no good.|have you noticed and youve seen it yourself the premiums have gone through the roof? right? the deductibility unless youre|close to death, youre never going to use it. you cant use it because the deductibility is so high.|but the premiums are up 30%, 40%, and 50% and more. its a disaster.|and on top of that, its going to cost the country a fortune. so its not only costing you a lot of money, its going to cost the country a|fortune.|so we have to do something about it. and we have to do something importantly about it.|but when i see the people on television and i have to tell you i wont mention names, some of them when they hear my name i was talking |we have a great reporter today from the wall street journal with us. okay? who came down. and she actually said "some of them when they hear your name|it looks like theyre a boiler waiting to explode." its true.|now, number one, they look bad because they said do you remember the beginning? like three, four months ago. they said, "hes a clown.|hes a clown. just having fun."|you know, i went to a great school. i did great. i did everything was great. i came out. i made a fortune, which i want to use the brain for you,|but i made a fortune.|i then did a book called the art of the deal and many bestsellers. the art of the deal being probably the best selling business book of all time. who|has read the art of the deal? yeah, most people. most everybody.|i jokingly say but i mean it the bible tops it by a long way. i say that. i say that. said it the first time in iowa. people liked that. but|its true. nothing tops the bible.|but the art of the deal great success. many books bestsellers. many, many bestsellers.|then i do the apprentice. ive never done television. i do the apprentice. its one of the most successful shows ever on television by the way.|and nbc renewed the apprentice. you know that. right? for me.|they came up to my office, the head of comcast great guy i wont use names. just say "steve". no, honestly hes a great guy. one of|the best in the country. he came up with the heads of nbc six months ago and they said, "donald, were renewing the apprentice. please, youll|have to do you have to do it."|i said, "honestly, steve, im running for president. i want to make our country great again. i want to make -"|and they didnt believe me. and i said it four times. they didnt believe me. nobody believed that i was going to run. nobody.|my wife didnt even believe me, but now she does. but she actually said "if you actually say youre going to run, youre going to do great|because people like you." she actually said "theyd love you" but i dont want to brag. but she said, "if you actually run not you may|run, you may not run, who knows?" but she said "if you actually say -"|so the nbc guys come up terrific people. i mean, honestly i had a great relationship with nbc for 12 years. we had many, many, you know number|ones and the apprentice continues to do great. you know, last season you know how well it did. so they wanted to renew it for many, many shows.|in fact, mark burnett called up. you know mark burnett. he did survivor, apprentice. so mark burnett, whos a great guy, he calls up and he goes "i|dont believe it. youre not taking a renewal." the word is renewal. i said, "thats right, mark. im going to run for president." "no,|no, no, you have to nobody doesnt take a renewal. its unheard of in primetime television. two hours primetime. are you crazy?" i said,|"mark, i have to do this. ive done so well in this country. i have to do it."|we can save our country. we can save our country.|so anyways, the bottom line, nbc renewed it. i told them im not doing it, and then they finally believed me when i actually announced.|they dont like me anymore. its amazing. they do not like me.|but its too bad. too bad. well, thank you.|you know, the funny thing about the apprentice there have been 15 copies of the apprentice. every single one of them failed. so then a reporter|said to me, "why do you think that is?" i said "because im special." and i was kidding. i was doing it sarcastically i mean, i sort of meant|it to be honest, right? but i was sort of kidding. and they wrote it and i hated the way it looked in writing. you know, it sounds good when you say it|but oh it looks so bad in writing.|but so i had a great experience. so here i am great schools, great brain, great success, built a great company, do the apprentice, tremendous|success. when i did the apprentice, a certain critic said "it will never be successful" because you know to have a big hit a really a number one|hit you have to and you remember that first season it had one of the highest ratings ever. the finale of the apprentice? aye! remember with|the great bill rancic. remember how that was? incredible. but to have a great success, you have to have women.|and ill never forget i saved the article. right? like harry truman saved it where it said, "truman loses" and he actually won. remember? but|i saved this article. they said "trump can never succeed on television because why would women want to watch donald trump?" and i said, "am i so bad? am|i so bad?" tell me, am i so bad?|and it turned out that women were the biggest base. i mean, those were the ones that likedso you know i saved those things.|but no matter how you cut it, we can do something so incredible. and honestly, its going to be hard. its going to be a lot of work. its|going to be a lot of time. i wouldnt leave the white house. you know, obama always leaves the white house. think of it. youre elected|president. youre in the white house. why would you want to leave? i think id maybe never leave! how cool is that?|he leaves to go to some place and go fundraisers. ill try i dont know maybe theres some rules against it. so maybe i cant. but|ill do the fundraisers in the white house.|he and his wife left i think one was doing the ellen show another was doing another show right next door in burbank, california. they left a|couple of hours difference. one took air force one; one took a beautiful boeing 757. two planes. a little bit different timing going to the same|location, going to the same airport to do different shows.|and i say why? why arent they flying at least the same plane?|now, i know what those suckers cost because i happen to have one of them right? so i know what it costs to operate these planesmore importantly, the|time and the energy. but i would have said ellen or i would have said whoever was doing the show, "lets do it from the white house." this way, i|take a half and hour, i go back, i dont spend any money of the taxpayers.|and you know the funny thing is that whoever the host is would like it better. "were doing our show live from the white house or something".|so we dont pay any money. we dont have to fuel up air force one, which costs you do you ever see what it costs to travel in these|things? with hundreds and hundreds of security and youre closing down burbank, california.|i mean, every time obama comes to manhattan to do a fundraiser, which is often, i say "whats going on? you cant move. they closed down all the|streets. they closed down the city."|and he could do it from like washington. in fact, he could do it in my new hotel that im buying which is only a couple of blocks.|its true. im building this incredible hotel on pennsylvania avenue and its going to be incredible. the old post office. and i|actually got it from the obama administration, which is hard to believe. people say "whats going on? how did trump get it?"|one of the most heavily sought after buildings in the history of the general services administration, which owned it. you know, theyre the ones|that made the decision. and i got it and were building this phenomenal hotel trump international hotel right on pennsylvania avenue|directly between congress and the white house. right? its going to open just in time and by the way, listen to this one. were under|budget and ahead of schedule. do you ever hear that from government? way under budget.|so were actually going to be opening and itll be great. but he can use my hotel. ill let him use it free. you just come in, use it, go|back to the white house. but you dont have to do that.|but youd say to yourself why you know, its a mindset. but more importantly even in the travel, we have so many things that we have to do|to straighten out our country. you dont want to waste time. youve got to do this. youve got to make deals.|ive got the greatest deal makers in the world lined up to make deals for us. carl icahn incredible guy. right? incredible guy. great deal|maker.|ive got some of the greatest deal makers in the world. theyre all calling me too. they said "you didnt ask me."|i have these guys calling me up the best in the world.|now, i know the best. i also know guys that are overrated. i know guys that you havent heard of that honestly are phenomenal. i know a lot that you|have heard of that arent really that good, that are overrated in my opinion.|but theyre the best in the world. and theyre calling me. they dont want money. theyre worth billions of dollars.|but when i put, lets say, carl icahn and ill say "carl, do me a favor. handle china." were going to make a great deal. no, no, were|going to make a great deal because thats what happens. you know, thats what happens.|so, were going to take back our trade.|if you look at china, if you look at japan i was in los angeles a few weeks ago. i saw ships the biggest ships ive ever seen with cars|pouring our, pouring out one after another, made in japan, very nice. everythings nice. except that it doesnt help us. when does it help us?|when does it help us?|we sell them beef. beef. and then they dont want it. because you know, do you ever see whats going on over there? we sell the beef and it goes|over there and its very perishable. so by the time it gets over there, then they turn it over "we dont want it."|they have cars coming from these massive, massive ships. massive. and they just pour off the ships.|and i say, "what are we doing? how stupid are we? no tax, no nothing."|and im a free trader. i believe in free trade. i have to say. but i have to be fair trade.|when you look at japan, they take in money up here and we give them money down here. we get nothing by comparison. its like peanuts.|balance it out, fellows. balance it out. got to balance it.|a friend of mine is a great manufacturer. as you know, china has its probably the greatest theft in the history of the united states what|china has done to us. theyve taken our money. theyve taken our jobs. theyve taken everything. theyve taken so much.|and theyre creating a bubble and you know interestingly were so intertwined that now the bubble could take us down if it explodes, which at|some point it might.|and weve got to be smart.|i made so much money dealing with china. i made hundreds of millions, probably billions, dealing with china.|the bank of america building in san francisco i own a big chunk of that, which nobody knows. nobody knows.|you know, all these guys come to forbes. "oh, trumps worth only $5 billion or $4 billion." or whatever. "hes only worth $5 billion." its|like a bankrupt magazinethey dont even know my numbers. they said, "well, we havent been able to look at about 400 of his companies."|so i filed. interestingly, they said "hell never run. hell never run."|then i announced. then they said, "oh, hell never file his form whatever." thats a single page where basically youre signing your|life away and it has to be done within 14 days of the announcement.|i signed my form. and they said, "well, hell never ever put in his financials." and you have like 90 days or something. and they said, "hell|ask for extensions but hell never show because hes probably not as rich as people think."|but actually im much richer and i put in my financials its true. its true.|and forbes and another group said, "no, no, we dont know what these companies are."|i put in these massive financials, and you know, i was so proud. i might have filed if i wasnt going to run. i wanted to show people. i wanted to|brag. its such a great company ive built.|so they said, "hell never put in his financials." i put in the financials. and everybody theyre much bigger. its a much bigger|you know, very little debt, tremendous value. and really great assets. iconic assets. you know, iconic. doral, turnberry in scotland. i mean, i|have some of the greatest real estates in the world. and im very proud of it.|but they say, "hell never file. hell never file."|then they see all these companies. and you know, they have boxes. and because it wasnt really meant for somebody like me, and they have these|little boxes. they say, "is it worth or does he make $1 million, from $1 million to $5 million, from $5 million to $10 million, from $10 million to $20|million?" the last box is $50 million or more. $50 million or more.|so like i have a lot of buildings that are worth much more than that. i have a lot of assets that are worth much more than that.|so it says "$50 million or more". so i checked many of them. i dont know how many. i think theres 23 of them. can you believe it? so i checked|like, i dont know, i think its 23. i could be wrong. oh, theyll kill me if im wrong. but im not sure. but i think its like|23 boxes. $50 million or more.|so you know when some of these guys do to try and always marginalize you? they added up 23 50s. now, some of the 50s are worth a billion. some of them|are worth more than a billion.|so it says "$50 million or more", i go 50. so theyll take $50 million for a building that might be worth a billion and honestly much more.|and they add them up and they say "well, hes worth $2.9 billion." its really this is the press. and they have no clue. those statements|arent really meant for me its not meant for a guy like me.|but with all of that the statements were so good. theyre so good. theyre so good.|and you know, one of the things im doing and last night was incredible. we had an amazing event in massachusetts. right? oh, look at this, we have|a wit- what the hell are you doing in nashville? what are you doing?|anyway, so here i am. i spent millions of dollars during the course on jet fuel. okay? like a lot of money on jets.|but somebody puts up a sign $100 to go to this thing. i didnt know who did it. but somebody puts up a sign.|so all over the place, im spending millions of dollars. im turning down millions. i dont want your money. i dont want your money.|somebody puts a sign up talking about $100 contribution, which you didnt have to make. but they put it up. its all over cnn. "trump is asking|for $100."|i fly my plane some place it costs me a fortune. the fuel. the $100. the money that i raised last night, which says it all it goes towards paying off|like the expense or something. the guy that had it is a great guy ernie. a great guy. really successful guy. you know him, right? ernie. hell|sell you a car any day of the week, right?|and you know the guy is like 2,000 people showed up. let him get a little deferment of the roast beef or whatever the hell theyre serving.|so they put up a sign. i dont want the money. i might like $4 or $5 million. thats hard to turn down. but the hundred dollars times some|people and we let the vets there, we let most of the people i think came in free. and i end up with this big story "trump accepting|contributions".|i cant believe it. i got so angry at my people. because somebody put up a sign saying $100. and honestly, first of all, its like peanuts. it|doesnt mean anything. but they used to it to try and marginalize. they always do. they always do.|the bottom line is i am self-funding my campaign. im self-funding. i dont want to have anybody giving. i dont need money. now, with that|being said, the small money comes in and its not a lot of money but its great money. like beada might send me some money. beada will send me|some money.|but a woman sent me $7 with a beautiful letter from georgia. another person sent me $12. small money. and some sent me $1,000. but it doesnt amount|to a lot. but that i do like coming in because they invest in the campaign.|how do i take the $7 check, right, and send it back to the person who sent it to me from georgia? "dear so and so, im sorry i dont really want|your money." how do you write a letter like that?|i want them to invest in it. you know, but theyre not going to tell me not to do this or not to do that for china because they are lobbyists for|china and they gave me $5 million.|i had a big lobbyist asked me to have he wanted to give me $5 million for my campaign. i turned him down. i turned him down.|and then i see this story on cnn last night. it was disgusting. that look theres a sign $100! somebody does a sign. it actually was a|beautiful sign if you want to know the truth. it was so beautiful. it was beautifully done. and theyre doing this big thing about all day long last|night about i said we had this incredible event and they destroyed it by trying to marginalize. and thats the press. thats the media.|yeah, the criminal media. i mean, theres truth to it. no, because a lot of times they know its wrong.|but i just want to tell you so important to me and last night it was such an incredible event. it had to be a record for a house. the guy got a|beautiful house, got a big lawn, put up a tent. but we had 2,000 people. it had to be a record.|the spirit in that group, the spirit in alabama, the spirit was so incredible. the spirit in our last meeting in iowa. dont forget.|when i went to iowa and you know what i love? im leading with tea party. big. i love tea party. i love the tea party. tea party people, stand up|and take a bow. you have not been treated fairly. no, you havent been treated fairly.|you have not been treated fairly.|you know, people talk about the tea party and you talk about marginalizing, at least i have a microphone where i can fight back. you people dont.|the tea party people are incredible people. these are people that work hard and they love the country and then they just get beat up all the time by the|media. its disgusting.|and you will be surprised how big you are. you dont know how big you are. you dont know the power that you have. i mean it. you dont know|the power that you have.|the tea party and you can call it anything that you want. i dont care about names. but the tea party has tremendous power.|i talked silent majority. but the silent majority is more than tea party. its democrats. its poor people. its rich people. its|everybody. its evangelicals.|one of the things that made me so happy im a protestant. im a presbyterian. right? is that i had a recent poll and they did a|beautiful like these polls are great. you know, guys like jeb bush and hillary, they hire pollsters. they pay them hundreds of thousands of|dollars. what do you have to do that for? every week they come out with a new poll. right?|hey, im rich. i could hire a hundred poll. i dont want to waste money. you know, why should i pay?|i know in one caselike $150,000 a month. and you know, then theyre arrogant guys. they think theyre hot stuff and they tell the candidates|what to say. "youve got to say this. youve got to be politically correct."|no way. i dont have time to be political. no, its true. its true.|i dont have time to be political. you know, it takes a lot of time to be politically correct.|you saw the anchor baby thing. did you see that with where im on? and somebody fromits the same network cnn again he said,|"you know the name anchor baby is very insulting?" i said, "what would you call it?" and he gave me like nine words. "a baby of illegal immigrant who|was brought to the country to this and that." i said, "how can i say that? its too long."|its anchor baby.|and then bush jeb. jeb bush gets caught because he is such a nice person. honestly.|if you want a nice person, honestly you should vote for jeb. the country is going to go to hell but we wont talk of that. no, no, but if you want a|nice person.|so jeb has a memo that he signed of basically a politically correct memo. you know, dont say this, dont say that. all these things. pages of|stuff.|but one of the things "never use the term anchor baby."|so all of a sudden, hes using the term anchor baby just last week.|and with me, when i use it nobody criticizes me. they expect me. they gave up. okay?|with him, they killed him. they just killed him. it didnt stop.|and then he blamed it on the asians. he said, you know did you see that? and then the new york times did an editorial "how dare you attack the|asians?"|so he wanted to steer away from the hispanics. he said, "well, you know, the asians come in and they also have anchor babies." and now the asians all|hate him. its true.|but the asians love me and i love them. i love them.|so he has a memo and he signs the memo and it says a couple of years ago "dont use this term", and now hes using it because he has|because baby you know, think of it. think of it. i want to build a wall. okay? so easy. so easy. when this clown jose reyes or whatever the|hell his name no, hes a baseball player. ramos. actually jose reyes is a baseball player. hes a nice baseball player. but when ramos got|up the other day screaming and ranting and going crazy and i had all these reporters. actually, the reporters were mostly on my side because they all|had their hand up but this guy starts screaming.|so i even had liberal people from cbs i actually said to the cbs guy "yes?" and this guy stands up and starts screaming.|so when he and i actually got a lot of credit for the way we handled him. i didnt do anything like i didnt do anything. except for|the times. and thats what i alluded to before. the times said, "donald trump railed at him and screamed at him." i didnt scream at him. but he|was screaming at me.|and much worse than that, they said i wore a toupee. can you believe it? i dont wear a toupee, and i proved it i wont bring anybody up.|i wont bring anybody up. but i dont.|but think of it. im in the front page of the new york times and in the first sentence in the first paragraph has this announcer this hispanic|announcer that nobody ever heard of saying they called him something which means he wears a toupee. and i dont.|so, im on the front page of the new york times. i cant even talk about it. im embarrassed to talk about it.|but they also said, i was essentially screaming at this guy from univision, who i happen to be suing for $500 million. they didnt mention that.|they also didnt mention that his daughter works for hillary clinton. did you know that? his daughter works for hillary clinton. oh, you didnt|know that. oh. no, they didnt mention that. no, no.|they said i was wearing a toupee and i was screaming but they didnt. no, hes screaming at me.|so we very nicely and then we let him come back and we actually had a nice talk. he actually seemed like a nice guy after he calmed down a little|bit. you know, hes a very emotional man.|but, he said, "you cant build a wall because you cant do it."|so, 2,000 years ago in china we always get back to china 2,000 years ago, the great wall of china oh, wed like to have a wall.|this is a serious wall. okay? this is a wall you dont go through so easy.|they built a wall 2,000 years ago thats 13,000 miles. think of that. thats a big wall. thats serious wall, right? this was 2,000 years|ago. i mean, it took them like 500 years to build it so you know, i got to be a little bit you know, took a long time. but 13,000 miles thats|a long time. they had no tractors. they didnt have caterpillars.|of course, today, we use komatsus because theyre made in japan and you could buy them cheaper. how stupid is that? because they devalued the yen so|much and people are buying komatsus instead of caterpillars. caterpillars stock is down. its terrible. well change that around. believe|me. believe me.|but, they build this wall. now, we have really 15 i would say look we have 2,000 miles as opposed to 13,000. but you dont need it on|all of it because some you have natural landscaping, some you have a lot of places.|and actually 10 years ago, everybody wanted the wall built. hillary wanted it built. but they couldnt.|because im a great builder. what i do best is build. im not a rendering guy. i do the building and then do the rendering. a lot of these guys|come in with renderings and it never gets built. does that make sense to anybody? im the opposite. i get it built.|so, one of the reasons it couldnt get built is because they couldnt get an approved environmental impact study. do you believe this? no, no,|they had certain snail doggers and different things. they couldnt get it. they could not get an environmental impact study approved to build a|wall.|and theyre killing people. we have illegal immigrants. you see that with kate in san francisco. you see it with jamiel. you see it with so many|people.|last night in massachusetts i met some unbelievable families that have been devastated by illegal immigrants. they come into this country and kill|members of their family.|last week in california, a 66-year-old veteran a female, a veteran, 66 got raped, sodomized, tortured, and killed. raped, sodomized,|tortured, and killed. 66-years-old. by an illegal immigrant that they caught, that they caught luckily.|but this is what we have. we have stupid people in our government and we have people pouring across the border. and you know what? we have great border|patrol people. i went there. you probably saw that. thats why the hat is so successful. the white one, right?|but i went there, everybody wants to buy the hat. now they like the white one. then two weeks later, i wore the red one. the white one didnt sell|so well. the red one sells. crazy thing.|but i went to the border and i got to know the people and i saw people, and you know its rough stuff, its rough stuff.|and when i first came in and when i first did my opening statement that i was running for president, i talked about illegal immigration. i was killed by|the press.|rush limbaugh, who i think is a terrific guy, said "trump has received more incoming than any human being ive ever seen. then he goes and has a|news conference and i think hes going to apologize and he doubles down."|i got credit. i got credit.|no, they thought i was going to apologize. and i dont mind apologizing but i have to make a mistake to apologize and i was right. no, i was right.|so for two weeks, as rush said, i took incomingin fact that was my first two weeks. i said "is it going to be like this for the next year and a|half?" i dont know if i can make it. it was brutal.|now, many of those people that talked that way, many of those people, theyve apologized to me. everybody says im right. and only because of me|is everybody talking about illegal immigration. they wouldnt even be talking about it. they wouldnt even be talking about it.|and were going to build a wall and were going to get, you know, the gang members in baltimore and in chicago and these are some tough dudes.|theyre going to be out so fast.|one of the first thing im going to do is get rid of those gang members. were going to be you know, you look at whats going on with|baltimore, you look at whats going on in chicago and ferguson and st. louis the other night. we are going to get rid of those gang members so fast|your head will spin.|you know, we can be very tough. i just met your cops outside. those police are tough cookies. those guys we need law and order. we need law and|order.|i mean, they allowed in one night, that first night in baltimore they allowed that city to be destroyed. and they set it back 35 years. one|night. because the police were not allowed to protect people. they werent allowed to protect people.|we have incredible law enforcement in this country and we have to be the head of the police in chicago is a person i know. originally from new|york. hes a phenomenal guy. he can stop things if theyre allowed to stop them. he can stop it. believe me.|we have some incredible people. but we have to be tough. we have to be smart.|you know, i know youre going to have some bad apples. youre going to have problems. i see some of the things. you did too and its|disgusting and its horrible. but thats such a tiny percentage.|the problem is the good work doesnt get shown on television. all of the good work, which is 99.9%.|i mean, the good work with the police. its 99.9%. that one little thing.|and its horrible. i agree. i hated some of the things. i dont have to go into them. but you know the same ones because you were sick when you|looked at some of them just like i was.|but we need law and order. we need our police. theyre great people. they do a phenomenal job. theyre right now afraid of doing anything.|theyre afraid.|i mean, i know cities. i wont mention names but i know cities where police are afraid to even talk to people because they want to be able to retire|and have their pension; they dont want to be thrown off the police force.|and then you wonder why theres crimes in our cities.|so we need a whole new mindset. we have to build up our military. we have to make our military so strong. we have to make our military so powerful and|so strong that we never have to use it. we never have to use it.|we also have to focus on what we have look, ukraine. i want ukraine to be healthy, vibrant and good. but ukraine is near germany and all of these|european countries. were now sending f-22s. thats the newest fighters. the best in the world. were sending fighters every |wheres germany? where are all these european countries? it affects them. it affects them. and we want to stand alongside of them. i agree.|but why are we leading the fight? putin hates us. he hates obama. he doesnt hate us. i think hed like me. id get along great with him i|think if you want to know the truth. no, he has no respect for our president and our president doesnt like him in all fairness. they dont have|good chemistry to put it mildly, would you say. but id get along with these people.|think of it. every country is ripping us off. even russia is ripping us off because in the iran deal, which is going to go down as one of the worst|deals ever, russia is a big beneficiary because theyre going to sell iran missiles with the money we give to iran. think of that.|so one of the biggest beneficiaries is russia. okay?|but think of it. so, ukraine lets take a few of these things and then im getting the hell out of here; im going back to new york.|do you mind? maybe ill go to the grand ole opry tonight. can i do that?|id actually rather i love by the way, this is not a politician speaking. believe me. i hope. i love country music. i love it. hey,|trace adkins right? and who else won on the apprentice? who else? john rich. my kids love those two guys. john rich. and who else? who did really|well? clint black. right? clint black. he did great. and my trace how good is trace, okay?|you know, trace came onto the apprentice. and i said, "who the hell is he? who is he?" i didnt know who trace was. id never heard of him. and|he wasnt a big name. and he came on just to show you how important this show is and his record or album or whatever you call it nowit|went to number one. and then he came to me the next yearbut trace came to me and he goes you know, at certain awards show, i wont mention|the name but he said "last year, i couldnt get into the show and this year im hosting it, mr. trump, all because of you."|nice, right? i know, nice.|but those three guys, theyre great and theyre just fantastic people.|but weve got to make our country so strong. we have to make our country rich again.|a person came up and said, "oh, thats not nice." whats not nice? they said rich, you know, to say were going to make our country rich.|we cant make our country great if were going to be poor. were a debtor nation. we owe $19 trillion.|china think of this china we owe $1.4 trillion to. so they come in, they take our jobs, they take our money, they take our base, they take|our manufacturing and we owe them $1.4 trillion. how do you do that? thats like a magic act. right? its true.|japan sells us cars by the millions. they make a fortune. they come in, they sell us cars by the millions. and we owe them the exact same amount. we owe|them $1.4 trillion. how come if theyre selling us cars we owe them money? think of it. put on your business. see? i have a natural instinct for|this stuff. right? you know? right?|if we buy all these cars, why do we owe them money? but we owe them because they take all our money that they make and they buy our bonds. and were|paying interests on them and we owe them money.|so, itll change. it can change. its not even going to be hard.|people dont realize. see, obama never read the art of the deal. people dont realize.|oh, and somebody said sharon. it was sharon. wheres sharon? she gave me such a hard time. wheres sharon? where the hell is she? you could have|both sharons stand up actually. where are they? both of them. sharon is great. oh, did they go after hershe took a lot of incoming. sharon, did you|take a lot of incoming? i think so. right? thank you, darling.|so, we are going to do something that if i get elected and again they said ill never run and nowone guy said john mclaughlin |you ever watch the mclaughlin report? i like him.|and one of the people on the little group said donald trump is a great businessman but hell never make it as a president. hell never get|elected. hell never make it. and john mclaughlin this crusty guy who i like; i dont know him. i never met him, i dont think. but i|like. hes sitting there and he goes and he got angry he goes "why wouldnt he make it? you tell me why. hes been a tremendous|success in everything hes done. i go all over the world. i see him name. i see his name all over. hes a great success."|and he said i think this is the word "hes a man of great achievement. why wouldnt he make it?"|and i thought it was so nice and the other guy just sort of shut up. you know, because you need somebody of great achievement.|you need ive produced tens of thousands of jobs over the year. i dont have to worry about obamacare. i take such good care of my|employees. i have thousands of employees. i take good care of them. we have great plans. my employees are lucky. they hit the lotto, okay? but i take|great care education and health care and my people are very happy.|but ive done this for a long time, and ive seen ups and downs. ive seen market crashes. ive seen friends of mine go bankrupt.|youve never seen ive never gone bankrupt. by the way, ive used the laws to my advantage and companies.|i buy a company. i throw it into a chapter. i negotiate with banks. i kill. you know. and then they say "trump goes bankrupt." these people they|dont have any |now, when other people do that, when a carl does it i mean, they do it all the time. they use it all the time. its called using your head.|its called using the laws.|actually i did a good job didnt i at the debate when chris matthews so angrily said i do what every other great businessman does.|i buy a company you know, its one company was sort of interesting. a friend of mine had it. good guy. and the banks were just killing him.|they were mean. and banks can be mean, right?|youve got to teach them how to behave, right?|so this guy was just getting beaten. and i did him a favor and i called up the banks. and i said "do me this, do this, do this, do that." they said, "we|wont do that. no, we wont do that."|i said, "youre making a mistake." anyways, its sort of a little bit complicatedi bought it. immediately, i called them back and said,|"dont do this." i threw it into a chapter. and they come out with the story "trump files bankruptcy". can you believe it? i negotiated it to hell.|what i did to that bank ayeyeye.|they see me walking down the street and they go "hey, hey, hey." but then im good at that stuff, you know? im really good at that stuff.|but you have to use the laws to your advantage. no, no, you have to use it to your advantage.|atlantic city. you know, you look at atlantic city. caesars went bankrupt. whoever heard of caesars? caesars filed chapter 11. nobody|cares. everybody in atlantic city. i had the good sense seven years ago and actually the financial media gives me great credit because i have a vision|for things.|i said, "dont go into iraq" even though im a very militaristic person. i said "dont go into iraq" and they shouldnt have because i|said youre going to destabilize the middle east. so what did we get $2 trillion. thousands of deaths. thousands. like 5,000. wounded warriors|who i love all over the place.|we cant even go there. iran is taking over iraq. with the money that were giving them, theyre going to take off and theyre going to|get the oil, theyre going to get everything. the oil they dont get isis is getting. what do we get? nothing. we get nothing. we got far less|than nothing.|so i had vision in 2004 reuters actually it was before that but they wrote a story. trump says dont do iraq.|now, im much more militaristic than bush, even the brother. but you got to know where to use it and when. you got to use.|so with atlantic city, seven years ago, i got out. thats called vision. i should get credit for vision.|and again, this isnt bragging. normally, i wouldnt say this but i need your fricking votes. do you understand that? do you understand that?|i mean, normally i wouldnt. so i got great credit. i got out.|but most of the places in atlantic city are either in trouble or theyre bankrupt. they went bankrupt.|but i made a lot of money in atlantic city. i had a great time in atlantic city but they asked me a nasty question, i gave a great answer. i thought. so|i think i solved it.|listen, we are going to do things that are going to make you so proud if i win.|we are going to have victories again. we are going to win.|in fact, last night in front of the audience and ive never said this before. last night in front of the audience i said were going to have so|many victories.|and then i said were going to win here. were going to win on trade.|were going to win militarily in terms of not having wars but just having such great strength that nobodys going to play with us. nobodys|going to mess with us. okay? nobody.|and were going to have victories. so many victories that are going to be coming outin fact, you might get tired of victories. you may not want|anymoreand everyone stood up and said "no, no, no, we want to keep winning."|if i win, we will have victories all over. we will win on trade. we will win on health care. we will win on everything.|i will protect your social security without cuts. i will protect your medicare and your medicaid. we are going to have something thats so special.|and you know, my whole fame is and ill say it once. we will make america truly great again.|and thank you very much. thank you everybody. thank you. thank you very much!|thank you, everybody. great honor. great honor, thank you. this is a wonderful day. on a saturday morning yet. isn't that nice? thank you, all. and|we're going to have an incredible convention. it's really going well. we're going to have an incredible convention. and we're going to get things|solved, and we're going to do lots of wonderful things for our country, most importantly.|so i'm here today to introduce the man who will be my partner in this campaign, and the white house, to fix our rigged system we are in a rigged,|rigged system and to make america safe again and to make america great again.|i want to also address the islamic terror attack in france. we've witnessed horror beyond belief, no matter where you look. and now it's happening more|and more. and it's never going to stop.|we need new leadership. we need new thinking. we need strength. we need in our country law and order. and if i'm elected president, that will happen.|i want to express our unyielding support for the people of france, and we mourn their loss as a nation.|and as far as turkey is concerned, so many friends in turkey, great people, amazing people. we wish them well. it looks like they're resolving the|difficulty, but we wish them well. a lot a lot of anguish last night, but hopefully it'll all work out.|now, as, hopefully, the next president of the united states, i want to refer back to what's happened over the years. the middle east today is more|unstable than ever before. never been like this. out of control. after four years of clinton, who really led the way and led obama down a horrible path,|because i don't even think he could have made these decisions so badly, she led him right down a horrible path. he didn't know what he was doing.|iraq, syria, all into chaos. and iran is on a path to nuclear weapons. and on top of that, we gave them back $150 billion, and we didn't get our|hostages until the end. now we're seeing unrest in turkey, a further demonstration of the failures of obama-clinton. you just have to look, every single|thing they touched has turned to horrible, horrible, death-defying problems.|we also need to bring back in this country because we see what happened our industry, our manufacturing, our jobs. they've been taken away,|like we're babies. taken away. and we're going to bring them back.|i found the leader who will help us deliver a safe society and a prosperous really prosperous society for all americans. indiana governor mike|pence was my first choice. i've admired the work he's done, especially in the state of indiana. and i'm going to go over some of those accomplishments|in just a minute.|but i also admire the fact that he fights for the people, and he's going to fight for you. he is a solid, solid person.|governor pence served indiana with distinction in congress. he rose to leadership and served as the chairman of the entire house republican conference.|number one. he's really got the skills of a highly talented executive, leading the state of indiana to jobs, growth, and opportunity, in spite of the|relentless obstacles put in his way and every state's way by the obama administration. it's horrible out there. high taxes and regulations. and it's out|of control.|mike pence is a man of honor, character, and honesty. we know that. hillary clinton is the embodiment of corruption. she's a corrupt person. what she's|done with her e-mails, what she's done with so many things, and i see the ads up all the time, the ads. she's totally bought and paid for by wall|street, the special interests, the lobbyists, 100 percent. she's crooked hillary.|and i think that, while she got away with murder, in fact, i think it might be her greatest accomplishment, escaping the recent scandal, and her lies,|and the loss of 33,000 e-mails but it wasn't a loss, she discarded that in itself is a major crime. other people have been paying tremendous|prices for what they've done, which is peanuts compared to what happened with hillary clinton.|thirty-three thousand e-mails are missing, and that's ok? didn't give them to the fbi? didn't give them to the attorney general, and that's ok? wipes|her server clean, that's ok? these are crimes. these are crimes. and how she got away with it, i think i understand it, but i think a lot of people|don't.|but i do believe, while she didn't pay the price she should have paid, she's going to pay that price when november 8th rolls around. she's going to pay|it at the polls. i believe that.|on top of everything else, hillary made $21.6 million giving speeches to special interests in a short period of time. she's totally owned by wall|street. we believe in americanism; she believes in globalism. and it's not that she believes in it. the people that give her all of this money believe|in it. and she'll believe in whatever they want her to believe. believe me. that's it.|what a difference between crooked hillary clinton and mike pence.|mike pence will never be afraid to speak the name of our enemy: radical islam. radical islamic terrorism. you saw it the other day with the truck|screaming out the window. you heard what he was screaming out the window. you saw it in san bernardino. you saw it at the world trade center. you saw it|in orlando. how horrible was that? you saw it in paris. you see it all over.|and hillary is a weak person. we are the law and order candidates, and we're the law and order party. we're going to change things around. there's going|to be respect again for law and order.|hillary clinton's foreign policy helped launch isis. you know, she's talking i see the ads she puts on. if i make one statement, which is fine,|she'll take that statement and put on a totally dishonest ad, because she's got a lot of money because it's given to her by the lobbyists and by the|special interests. got a lot of money.|but i see the ads on foreign policy. she's talking about donald trump doesn't have foreign policy experience. of course not. i've been a very, very,|very successful businessperson. i mean but but if you look at my calls, i said, don't go into iraq. nobody cared, because i was a|businessperson. i was a civilian. take the oil. many, many calls i've made.|you take a look. i said that in scotland and in the u.k., that was going to happen. i was the one that predicted it. and everybody said, he's wrong,|he's wrong. president obama said, if it happens, they're going to get to the back of the line, which probably is one of the reasons they lost, because i|consider it a win. i think it was a win for them, actually, because they don't want to be told what to do. and they don't want to be told that when|people pour into the country, they have to take them even if they're not qualified, even if they don't have paperwork, even if they have no idea where|they come from.|and i said that brexit's going to happen. i said that they are going to break away. and everybody laughed at me. and the odds were 20 percent. and then|when it happened, she took an ad saying, oh, donald trump said this or that, but i'm the one that said it was going to happen. and some of the more fair|reporters about 30 percent of them said he was right. i appreciate that. seventy percent didn't, so that's ok.|so mike pence will never be afraid to speak the name of our enemy. so important. now, i think if you look at one of the big reasons that i chose mike|and one of the reasons is party unity, i have to be honest. so many people have said party unity. because i'm an outsider. i want to be an|outsider. i think it's one of the reasons i won in landslides. i won in landslides. this wasn't close. this wasn't close.|now, this wasn't close. this was in the history of the republican party, history, with 17 people running, you have to understand, other people ran|against one, two, and three. there were 17. we got i say we, because i'm the messenger, i'm a messenger i'm doing a good job, but i'm a|messenger we got almost 14 million votes. that's more than any other person in the history of the republican party in the primary system running|for president.|think of it. that's more than ronald reagan, who we love. that's more than richard nixon. it's more than dwight d. eisenhower. you know, he won the|second world war, in all fairness. pretty good. it's more than the bushes.|but i mean by a lot. i don't mean by a little. but that's with 17 people. people don't over-say that. that means our message is unbelievable. and i want|to thank all of the loyal people because i have such loyal, unbelievable people, and they displayed that just yesterday in cleveland, where it's|going to be so amazing.|but they displayed it. it was on display, where we had this group of people, who many of whom i've known, and i won't say, because for party|unity, i'll say they're wonderful people, ok? never trump, they said, never trump, never trump. oh, we're going to win. they got crushed. and they got|crushed immediately, because people want what we're saying to happen.|they're tired of a country that has horrible trade deals, that has no borders, that has taxes that are through the roof, highest taxed nation just about|in the world, that has regulations that don't allow you to start a business and destroy your business if you do start and, by the way, speaking of|destroying businesses, we're going to take care of the miners and we're going to take care of the steelworkers. we're going to put them back to work.|so they're very tired of it. but i want to thank all of those people that delegates that were on the different committees, because, boy, was that|something. did we show them something. and unfortunately, the vote was very late. but essentially, we had 112- 12. this was the vote that was going to|put it onto the floor and we're going to have a big fight. we're not going to have a fight. people agree with what we've they want the wall. they|want the borders. they want these things to happen.|and what we're doing |and what we're doing that i'm so proud of, so proud and nobody else would even think about doing it i fought very hard for it. we'll call it|the johnson amendment, where he took away from the evangelicals and i want to thank the evangelicals, because without the evangelicals, i could|not have won this nomination. the evangelicals have been unbelievable. i dominated with the evangelicals. a lot of people were surprised. they say he's|not perfect. but you know what? they know i'm going to get the job done, and they're really smart.|and i said and i said for the evangelicals, that we're going to do something that nobody's even tried to do. you have the johnson amendment passed|by lyndon johnson and his group. and he was a powerful president. he knew how to get things done. he got bogged down in a war that was a disaster and it|destroyed him. but he was a powerful president.|and we call it the johnson amendment, where you are just absolutely shunned if you're evangelical, if you want to talk religion, you lose your|tax-exempt status. we put into the platform, we're going to get rid of that horrible johnson amendment. and we're going to let evangelicals, we're going|to let christians and jews and people of religion talk without being afraid to talk.|i saw this. i had so many great leaders so many times up to my office, the top the absolute top evangelical leaders, christian leaders, jewish|leaders, believe it or not, some muslim leaders people are going to be surprised to hear that i had the top leaders up to my office, and i|said, why is it that you're so powerful as an individual, and yet when you get out there, you're sort of timid?|and they didn't know how to answer the question. and it took two, three meetings before i figured it out. one great, great gentleman that everybody|knows, but whose name i will not reveal, said, mr. trump, we live in fear in our churches and our synagogues. we live in fear that we're going to lose|our tax-exempt status if we say anything that's even slightly political.|and i looked out the window. i was in trump tower, and i pointed to people walking down the street. i said, well, they have the right to speak, but you|don't. that means they're more powerful than you are. we have to do something about it. how did it start? how did it start?|and they said, it started because of lyndon johnson. and he actually had a problem in texas with a certain religious leader. and he did this, and he got|it done. and we're going to undo it, so that religious leaders in this country, and those unbelievable people, and not because they backed me in such|large numbers, but so that religion can again have a voice, because religion's voice has been taken away. and we're going to change that. ok? all right.|back to mike pence. so one of the primary reasons i chose mike was i looked at indiana, and i won indiana big. remember, indiana was going to be the|firewall. that's where trump was going to they agreed i'd win new york, i'd win pennsylvania, i'd win all these places. but indiana was going to|be the firewall.|so i got to study indiana, and i got to study new york and a lot of other places, and i saw how nafta, signed by bill clinton, has drained our|manufacturing jobs, just drained us like we've never been drained before. nafta, again, signed by bill clinton. nafta is the worst economic deal in the|history of our country. manufacturing down in some states 55 percent, 60 percent. it's a horror show, moving to mexico, moving to other places.|i have a friend who's a great builder. what he builds is plants. that's all he does, is build plants. he doesn't build buildings. he doesn't he|builds plants. it's the biggest in the world, from what i hear.|i said, how's business? i was with him the other day. how's business? he goes unbelievable. i said, really, wow, i'm surprised. why is it unbelievable?|because i think of him as building in this country. he says, donald, what we're doing in mexico, you won't believe. i said, what do you mean? he said,|we're building plants in mexico the likes of which we've never seen.|i said, what about this country? not much. not much. that's the expression. he said exactly that. not much. i said, but mexico? he said, you've never|seen anything like it. it's incredible.|folks, that's going to stop. we're going to go reverse it. we're going to bring our jobs back to this country. we can't be the stupid people anymore.|and he was better than a pollster. he's better than a consultant. i would say, how are we doing? and you get a big report that costs you millions of|dollars. doesn't cost me millions. me, i give them $10,000, ok?|it costs other people millions. it costs other campaigns millions to get a report. every time they get a report, it's millions. but i'll tell you what,|a guy like this is better than anybody you can hire to do a report. and he said it. he didn't say it from the standpoint of he's upset about it. just|fact. how are we doing? unbelievable in mexico. in fact, he actually said, i've never, ever seen anything like it.|and if you look, ford is building massive plants there instead of michigan. we want them to build them in michigan. they're going to build them in|michigan. and you know that i know how to do that. so easy. so easy.|but they're not going to do and they're not going to take advantage of us without retribution. there are consequences when you fire thousands of people|and move to another country and then think you're going to you're your product and sell it in here. there are consequences. and those consequences are|going to keep companies in our country. it's very simple. and everybody here knows what the consequences are, but i won't say that because i'm much more|interested right now in mike.|indiana's unemployment rate and this is the primary reason i wanted mike, other than he looks very good, other than he's got an incredible family,|incredible wife and family karen is amazing.|incredible family. highly respected. expected to go for another four years. he would have won, i think, very easily in indiana. indiana, their|unemployment rate has fallen, when he was there, when he started, 8.4 percent when he was governor, when he took over, to less than 5 percent in may of|2016. since january 2013, indiana's labor force has increased by more than 186,000 jobs. you have to understand, i've gone around to all these states.|i've gone to all of them. and every time, i have statisticians. i say give me the stats on a state.|and it's always bad, down, down, down. down 40 percent, 50 percent, 60 percent in some cases. here's somebody where it's gone up. private sector job|growth is up by more than 147,000 jobs since 2013. that's like very unusual.|governor pence balanced the budget. can you imagine a balanced budget? our budget's so out of whack in this country, we don't know what we're doing.|we're going to owe very soon $21 trillion. he balanced the budget. they don't know what that means. governor pence balanced the budget, produced a|surplus, and maintains a $2 billion reserve fund in the state of indiana.|it's also rated aaa, their bonds are rated aaa. very few states have that. aaa. the best. that's as good as you can get, whether you're a company, a|state, aaa.|indiana was recently recognized by chief executive magazine as the number-one state in the midwest for business. number one. and it's not even close.|there are approximately 34,000 fewer hoosiers on unemployment insurance now than there were when mike pence took office. so you have fewer hoosiers,|fewer people from indiana.|and besides that, bobby knight, my friend, who really did help me. i mean, if you want a reference, bobby knight in indiana, we love bobby knight. but|he agrees with everything i'm saying. he loves the governor.|indiana has the second-lowest unemployment rate in the nation, for veterans, where nobody's fighting for the veterans like i'm fighting for the|veterans, the veterans have been left behind.|if you remember a few months ago, hillary clinton said really they're doing much better, the v.a. is much better. they're doing a much better job|than people give it credit for. people are dying on line waiting for five, six days for doctors. people are dying on they can't even see a doctor.|it's a scandal.|take a look at what's happening with the v.a. in arizona. take a look at what's happening with you know, just the veterans administration|hospitals. it's a scandal. it's corrupt. it's incompetent. it's a scandal. and hillary clinton thought it was just fine. and, boy, am i going to win big|with the veterans. i mean, we know that for a fact.|so it's now 2.4 percent for veterans. in 2013, when mike pence took office, the rate for veterans was 6.7 percent. it was 31st in the nation, one of the|bad ones, and now it's almost the best. got them jobs. got them jobs.|indianapolis is ranked second in top 10 metro areas for young college graduates. that's a great thing. they're going to stay there. that's a great|thing. and mike worked hard on that. he was telling me, that was not easy.|under governor pence's leadership, indiana enacted the largest k- 12 education funding increase in the state's history. so you're balancing budgets, and|yet you're giving more money to education. isn't that a great thing?|indiana has just about the largest school choice program in america. school choice is where it's at, folks. you want to get your schools better, you|better get rid of common core fast.|governor pence enacted the largest income tax cut in the state's history. think of that. we're cutting taxes and balancing budgets. and along with|corporate tax reform, just about number one in the country. cnbc ranked indiana first in the nation for its infrastructure.|so with all of these cuts and all of these balancing budgets, we're spending more money on education, and the infrastructure is kept up. that had so|much look, as a builder, nobody in the history of this country has ever known so much about infrastructure as donald trump. i build|infrastructure. do i know how to build a wall? do i know how to build infrastructure?|you know, it's very interesting. we're building we're building i won the which is pretty amazing with the obama administration, but i|won the right to have the old post office building on pennsylvania avenue, right near the white house, and it's an amazing probably the best|location, one of the most sought after projects in the history of the gsa, general services. and i really like what's happened.|we're going to have an opening very soon. ivanka and eric and don did a fantastic job on it.|but i thought the other day, i was going over the numbers, we're under budget and about a year actually more than a year we're a year ahead|of schedule, and we're under budget substantially. and the quality of the work is even better than we originally were going to do.|and when i explained to a government representative that we're under budget and ahead of schedule, they almost fell off, because they've never heard|those words before. they've never heard them.|so when i see what happened to indiana, which was having tremendous problems, when i see what happened to indiana under mike's work also his|predecessor did a great job, by the way, great job, who's now at duke who's now at purdue when i see what happened with respect to the|numbers, the state, and everything else, that, to me, was probably the single most important point, because it's something that hasn't happened |almost has not happened in this whole country.|the turnaround and the strength of indiana has been incredible, and i learned that when i campaigned there. and i learned that when i won that state in|a landslide. and i learned that when governor pence, under tremendous pressure from establishment people, endorsed somebody else, but it was more of an|endorsement for me, if you remember. he talked about trump, then he talked about ted who's a good guy, by the way, who's going to be speaking at|the convention, ted cruz, good guy but he talked about trump, ted, then he went back to trump. i said, who did he endorse?|so even though he was under pressure, because i'm so, you know, outside of the establishment, it was the single greatest non- endorsement i've ever had|in my life, ok? i will tell you.|so with that, i would like to introduce a man who i truly believe will be outstanding in every way and will be the next vice president of the united|states, governor mike pence. thank you. thank you, everybody. thank you.|7/12/2016|wow. wow! whoa! that's a lot of people. that's a lot of people. thank you, everybody. thank you. all right. let's turn that music down. we|want to get to business, right? get to business. how is your governor doing, by the way? good? i think so. i think so. i just want to thank all of the|people of indiana. you know, we had a great victory here not so long ago. and indiana was the state that put me over the top. thank you, folks. thank|you. well, we have a lot of things to discuss, but we had some very bad news a few days ago, and you saw what happened. a lot of bad things|are happening. and i was going to go through a whole litany of that, but we don't want to. we want to be upbeat. we want to be positive. we want to be|strong. and we're going to be strong. we're going to be stronger than ever before. we're going to be greater than ever before. we're going to bring our|jobs back. we're going bring our military back. it's being depleted so badly. we're going to take care of our veterans, which we have to take care of.|we're going to get rid of obamacare, which is a disaster. and replace it with something terrific. we end common core. we bring our|education back to the local communities like this local community where the people love their children and they want to see their children be well|educated. it's so important. we're going to save our second amendment. we're going to save our second amendment. and it's under siege. you know, i wrote|a few words today. and i think it's important that we go through it as a group. it's been a special place and you're special people. and i know so many|people tonight in the audience. and you're all over. look at all those cameras up there, folks. look at all those cameras. they don't stop. they don't|stop. but i just wanted to say i wrote this quickly, but it means it came right from the heart. and i have to say that our whole nation grieves and|mourns for the loss of five heros in dallas, law enforcement. these were great, great people. great people. we pray for their families. we|pray for their loved ones. we pray for all the wounded survivors. we pray for our country. it's so important. the police are not just part of our|society. our police are the best of our society. remember that. we have to remember that. they represent our highest ideals, our greatest values, and|our most noble characteristics. when our police are attacked, our entire nation is attacked. remember that. remember that. so the message must be|delivered clearly for all to hear, the hostility against our police has to end, and it has to end right now. and we have to say together, and we have to|be strong. we have to take care of everyone. the two people that were killed in louisiana and minnesota, it was tough. it was tough to watch for|everybody here it was tough to watch. we have to figure it out. we have to figure out what is going on. was it training? was it something else? it could|have been something else. we have to take care of everybody. remember that. but we have to also we have to get to the bottom of things. we have to.|but we can never, ever forget the hundreds of thousands of great deals and great things that our police all over the country do, and nobody recognizes|them for what they do. and when there is a problem, as bad as these two situations were, and i personally think they were, they were bad. i hated, i|hated watching it. but as bad as they were, they get broadcast all over the world for days and days, and all of the good things which are magnified|thousands of times, nobody talks about. so we have to remember, we have to cherish and take care of our police. if we don't, if we don't, we don't have|a country anymore. we have a country in chaos. and remember this. and i say it once, and i say it with love, and i say it with compassion. because i|have love for our country, and i have great compassion for our people in our country. but i am the law and order candidate. we need law and order, and|we need strength in this country. we don't have strength in our country. we have crooked hillary clinton, as crooked as you get. i mean, you saw that|with the e-mails. it's a rigged system, folks. it's a rigged system. just remember it. it's a rigged system. it's rigged in so many different ways.|we're going to straighten it out. you can't even watch what happens. we had a young man who did nothing by comparison to what she did, and he warned his|friends of a problem that was coming militarily. and they came down on him with a vengeance. and they let her go. 33,000 missing e-mails. they let her|go. lies all over the place. and they let her go. think of it. it's a disgrace. so we're going to get on to other subjects. but i have to say law|enforcement has to remain with us. we have to take care of our police and our law enforcement officials. we're going to do it. we're going to continue|to do it. we're going remember that they do a fabulous job. we're going to remember that they do a great job. and every once in a while, problems will|happen. and we're going take care of those problems. and they can be bad problems. but we are going to treat our police with respect. remember that.|okay? now i'm looking at different rates and different crimes. and you see the crime rate in large portions of our country is going way up. you look at|certain inner cities, and look at chicago. look at what is going on. since president obama became president, almost 5,000 killings in chicago. and|nobody talks about it. well, we're going to start talking about it. because we have to make this a safe country. and, you know, i would say two weeks|ago, a month ago, i wouldn't be saying these words. i was talking about the border. i was talking about the wall. and we will build the wall. that i can|tell you. i can tell you. we're going to build it. don't worry about it. are you ready? who is going to pay for the wall?|i don't hear you. who is going to pay for the wall?|and they will. very much. they will. 100%. and you know what? they'll be happy to pay for the wall. we have a trade deficit with mexico that you|wouldn't believe. billions and billions and billions of dollars a year. we're losing on the border. we're losing on trade. and when i was in the debates|and i mentioned this, people would come up that i was debating against, and they used to say donald, you're not really going to build a wall, are you? i|say absolutely. they say but you can't build a wall. but i'm in the construction. you know how easy a wall is? a wall. we build 95-story buildings with|bathrooms. that's tough construction, not a wall. walls don't have bathrooms. and bathrooms are always tough. but we're going to have a very big|beautiful gate in that wall, big and beautiful. and that gate is going to be open. and it's going to be wide open for people to come into our country,|but they're going to come into our country legally. they're going to come in legally. and there are going to be people that love our country. they're|not going to be people that hate our country. they're not going to be people that we don't know where they come from. they're not going to be people|that come from the migration that don't have paperwork, that don't have passports, that we have no idea where they're from. we have no idea what their|motives are. we're going to say no. sorry. no. and we'll help. and in syria, we'll build safe zones, and we'll get other people to put up the money,|because we're going to owe very soon 20 trillion, trillion with a t. nobody even knows what it means. we're going to owe right now, can you believe|this? $20 trillion. soon going to $21 trillion. so we're going get the gulf states who have so much money, folks. so much money. and we're going to get|them to put up the money and others. and we're going to take care of people. and we're going have compassion. but we can't allow them to come into our|country. we have enough problems right now. you see what happened in orlando. you see what happened in san bernardino. we can't allow it to happen. so|we're going to build safe zones. we're going take care of people. we're going to have other people fund these safe zones. we're going to build up our|military. we should have never been in iraq. but once we went into iraq, we should have never left the way we left. we left like fools. we went in,|should have never happened. i didn't want to go from the beginning, and i have proof from the beginning. i didn't want iraq. i said you're going to|destabilize the entire middle east, and that's exactly what happened. but then we were there. losing thousands of lives, spending trillions and|trillions of dollars. probably in the middle east we're up to $4 trillion. and we're in worse shape now than we were 15 years ago before the whole deal|started. far worse. not even close. far worse. far worse. so what we're going to do is we're going to start thinking smart. we're going to be smart|again. we're going to make great military, and by the way, i said for years we've got to keep the oil. i said keep the oil. you leave, you keep the oil.|we didn't do it. we didn't do it. i said it for years. once we were in, i said when we get out, it's going to be a disaster, but when we get out, we|should have left some troops there. and i hate saying that. but we should have left some troops there, and it would have been better, certainly, than it|is right now. can't be any worse. but i always said keep the oil. but we didn't keep the oil. so who has the oil right now? a lot of the oil is had by|isis. and we created isis. and hillary clinton through her incompetence directly and indirectly created isis. and now she wants to get rid of it. she|says yes, we will fight isis. she is the one that created it with stupidity, with stupid, stupid policy. policy that's only going to get worse. she is|the one that created it. and that's what's happened. and so now we have problems all over the place. we have our cities exploding. we have isis looking|at us. and by the way, when our enemies all over the world, including our friends all over the world look at what's happening to our country, where the|other night you had 11, think of it, 11 cities potentially in a blowup stage. marches all over the united states, and tough marches, anger, hatred,|hatred. started by a maniac that some people asked for a moment of silence for him. for the killer, for the killer. okay? so when our enemies look at|what is going on with our country, they see our deficits. they see we don't win anymore. we don't win. we don't win. we don't win at anything. i always|say when i was going, when i was young going to high school and going to college and before that we never lost. you know, united states, they said had|never lost a war. now we never win. we don't win on trade. we don't win with our military. our military is so depleted, our military has fighter jets|that are in use flown by great, great american people that are so old, and they can't get parts for the fighter jets. these are people flying these jets|now in combat. they can't get parts. so they go to the plane graveyards in the deserts. they go to museums where they have similar planes, and they|strip apart to use for our fighter pilots to fly. this is what we've been reduced to. and i'll tell you something. hillary clinton is incompetent, okay.|the greatest single thing in my opinion that she's ever done is to get out of the e-mail problem. i think it is incredible. she did a great job on that.|i think it is her greatest achievement. i think when they look back on hillary clinton, they will say the greatest achievement of hillary clinton was|getting out of this problem with e-mail tz. houdini couldn't have gotten out. she was so guilty. i have a list. look. page after page of the lies |page after page of the lies. all over. look at this. page, page. look, i don't want to read it to you. the press would say, you should spend your entire|and bore everybody. it was so horrible. it was so disgusting. it was so outrageous. you look at general petraeus and look at what happened to him for a|tiny fraction of what crooked hillary did. you look at other people, for a tiny fraction, look at what happened to them. so i just tell you this, we|have a candidate on the other side who, if she ever gets elected, it will be four more disgusting years of obama, it will be four more years of|weakness, it will be four more years of civil unrest. it will be four more years of not winning with our military and not winning against isis. they|don't have a clue how to beat isis. they don't have a clue. but it will be four more years of obama, and obama care and all of these things that don't|work. except i think actually it will be worse. today i see bernie sanders gave her this very you know, sort of strange endorsement. i want to tell you,|a lot of bernie sanders people are so upset about it, they are going to be voting for trump. i really believe that. they're going to be voting for|trump. they are going to be voting for trump. because the one thing that bernie sanders and i have in common was trade. now he can't do anything about|it. he just knew it was bad. i know how to fix it. because i am in favor of free trade. a lot of people say i'm an isolationist, when you lose $800|billion a year on trade deficits, maybe that is not the worse thing. but we'll straight it out. i believe in open borders for trade and free trade. the|problem we have is that virtually every single country that deals with us are far sharper and far better. they have their best negotiators. we have|people that are political hacks negotiating for us and people that don't know what they're doing. i have the greatest businessmen in the world that have|endorsed me, including people like carl icahn, great businessman. we have some of the greatest negotiators, maybe the greatest in the world and we don't|use them. we use political hacks. we have people in there that got in for politics. you could look at the biggest companies in the world, and it is|small potatoes. it is peanuts compared to some of the massive trade deals. and we have people that should never be negotiating trade deals. just like we|have secretary of state kerry negotiating with iran, and what they did to him and you because he has no idea what the hell he was doing and what he gave|away, israel is in serious jeopardy, frankly we're in serious jeopardy, and we made a power out of iran. we made a power. number one, we should have|never gone in and negotiated that deal until we got our hostages back. ever. ever. we should have never, ever gone in. and what you say is, folks, we|have to get them back. and if you don't want to give them back, you leave the meeting. you leave the meeting. and you double up your sanctions, you|would have had them back within 24 hours, i guarantee you that. but we dshtidn't do that. i kept waiting for the whole delegation, i kept waiting for|them to leave, to get up and leave. i used to say get up and leave. perfect. get up. we didn't win anything. the only time that kerry left was at 73|years old to go into a bicycle lace where he fell and broke his leg, right. and i always tell people, i promise you i will never enter a bicycle race|when i'm in the midst of an important nuclear negotiation, i promise. i promise. but when you look at it, number one, we should have gotten them back.|and the other thing, we should have never given them back the $150 billion. and i would have said very nicely, my father used to think i was a little|bit rough, and he used to go, easy, son. son, take it nice and easy. you have to take the lumps out. he had an expression. good father. we all have|great fathers, i hope. i had a good father. but i learned a lot. he said, and he would go like this the lumps out. take the lumps. easy. nice and easy.|take the lumps out. you're a little too rough. what do you mean, pop? you're a little too rough. and over the years, i think i learned that. made great|deals and built a great company. great company. took advantage of every single thing you can because you are working for yourself and families and your|employees and took advantage of the laws, some of the laws are the dumbest laws i've ever seen and so stupid but you take advantage of them. you're like|a business person, right, got to take advantage of them. because you are really representing your employees, your company and your family. but my father|would say take the lumps out. so here is what i would have said on the 150. in the old days when i'm young, i would say we're not paying you back the|150 billion, you're not getting it. and there could be a lot of hard feeling in the room. take a while they will still come back, don't worry about|it. because they need us. they need us. and then i would have left and here go the sanctions. i would have done two things. number one, hostages before|we utter the first word. and number two and how long were the hostages there. that negotiation took forever and we didn't win a point. we lost|everything. they're going to be a nuclear power and they are rich and powerful. how about yemen. they are fighting on the other side of yemen. and|they're fighting and wee fighting. why didn't they make the deal to get out of yemen and kerry said because he didn't want to come pliblg ate |complicate the negotiations. they don't want to bring something else to complicate it. these are amateurs. but my father would say take the lumps out.|so here is what i would say. we wouldn't be negotiating because our prisoners would have been back years ago. i would have said, look, fellas, here is|the story. we have a problem. our country is flat broke. we owe 19 trillion and going to be 20 trillion or $21 trillion with the omnibus very soon. i|want to give you the money back, i really do. we don't have it, i'm sorry. they would have gone nuts. they would have said, what do you mean you have to|give us no, no, we want to. we don't have it. i want to so badly. we love you. you're such great people. such nice people. so kind. take a look at|what they do to their hostage and prisoners and you'll find out about tough people. great negotiators. persians, great negotiators. i would have said,|remember, nice and easy. i would have rather done it my way, but i respected my father. so i would have said, we don't have the money, can't do it. they|would have left and we would have left and we would have been back in two weeks. we would have saved $150 billion. so those two things. we would have|had our hostages back and saved $150 billion. now they are so rich, they are buying airliners, they are buying everything. they are buying probably|nuclear weapons, we just don't know about it, okay. what the hell do you have to nuclear weapons, we're worried about them making nuclear weapons.|they'll buy them. they have the money. they made such fools out of us. folks, those days are over. they're over. they're over. i call obama the|five-for-one president. so we have a trader named sergeant bergdahl. so sergeant bergdahl thinks he likes their way of life, obviously. oh, they have a|wonderful way of life. so one day he leaves. we lose five and maybe six, but five at least people looking for him. they were killed. they were killed by|the enemy. they go out there looking for him. they knew he left. everybody with him knew he left because he was all whacked out and a believer in them,|not us. so they knew he left. so knowing that, the fact they have a colonel and i believe a general talking to the people that knew him, and they told|the colonel and the general that he left. he deserted. remember the old day, a deserter, what happened? bang. 20 years ago, it was bang, but slowly. ten|years ago it was long prison. today they are probably talking about nothing. that is where we've come. but i call him the five-for-one. so we get|bergdahl, right, a trader. and they get five of the most vicious killers that they have, that they've been after for nine years to get them out and they|bring them and they are back on the battlefield trying to kill everybody, including us. this stuff has got to stop, folks. and gitmo, we're not closing|gitmo. we're going to fill it up. we're not closing gitmo. we're not closing gitmo. and i see hillary clinton said, i do not like donald trump's tone.|look, here is the story. i think i have a great temperament. she uses the word temperament but i love when she uses the word tone. they are chopping|heads off of christians and everybody else. we haven't seen that since medieval times. you read the history books, they chopped off heads. well, they|are chopping off heads. they are drowning people in steel cages, by the dozens, at a time. and she says, we don't like his tone. let me tell you, folks,|it is time for a tough tone. we've had enough. we've had enough. we've had enough. we've had enough. so we're going to do things the smart way. i|remember during the debate they asked one of the folks on the debut stage who is becoming friendlier and friendlier by the day with me, which some of|the people are recovering. it was i'll tell you what. they say it was the nastiest primary that anybody has seen. they say the nastiest in recorded|history. who knew what went on before recorded. but it was pretty nasty. and some of the folks, i saw one yesterday, i will not even mention names|because i want to be friends with everybody, right. i want to be friends with them. except for the real enemy. but they'll sign a document, all right,|it is called a pledge. i pledge i pledge, i swear, i pledge that if i don't make it, i'm going to support the nominee of the party. it doesn't say,|subject to change, subject to the weather, subject to the sun doesn't come up. no. it said, i pledge. and for that pledge, they got access to millions|of dollars worth of material from the republican national committee, the rnc. reince priebus, doing a great job. and if he doesn't, i'll tell you. and|if he doesn't over the next four or five weeks, i'll tell you. but they got access. so they signed a pledge they will support. i don't want their|support. it won't mean one vote than perhaps their family. it doesn't mean anything. but i signed the pledge, too. and everybody wanted to sign the|pledge. and the reason they signed the pledge was to get me to sign it. i signed it. i would have honored it. i said people should honor pledges. people|should honor documents when they sign them. you know, not a big deal. not a big deal. but they should honor them. so here is the story, folks. we're|losing our country. we're like a piece of swiss cheese at the borders. that is going to end. that's going to end. you know, the border patrol agents,|16,500, first time in history they've done this, they've never done this before, 16,500 border patrol agents have endorsed donald trump. they know|better than anybody what is going on at the border. and by the way, if and when we win, it is we i'm just a messenger folks, i'm telling a message of|common strength but i'm just your messenger and i'm doing a good job as a maepgessenger, in all fairness, but 16,500 border patrol agents endorsed|donald trump and what they do now is stand there with beautiful equipment, great people, people walk right by them. that is an easy job. they can't|stand it. because they don't like what is coming into our country. they want to do their job. with me, they're going to be working really hard. and i|said to them, when they called me to tell me about the endorsement, never done it before, they've never endorsed a presidential candidate before,|16,500, great, great people and i said to them, so let me tell you, i want to ask you this question how important is the wall? they said, mr. trump,|the wall is vital. i don't know what i would have done if they said it is not important. i would have said, i guess we're not building it because i|respect these people, they know better than anybody. they know a hell of a lot of better than consultants and people making a millions of dollars that|don't have a clue. who is better at that? i said how important is the wall? mr. trump, never forget the answer, the wall is vital. it is vital. very|important. very important. they actually said it is a tool toward real security, an important tool. and then i spoke with sheriff joe arpaio from|arizona and he called me out of the blue and i've read about sheriff joe, i mean, he knows borders, right. amazing guy. tough guy. but he's an amazing|guy. and he said, mr. trump, i just want to you know that i'm endorsing you because you know more about this stuff than anybody, you know more about|this stuff than people doing it for 25 years. you get it. you know what is happening. i'm endorsing you. and he's actually a quality person. he's a|tough guy. but he's a quality person. he gets the job done. amazing. so i know about that. and when it was coming time for the wall, i'll never forget,|vicente fox, on one of the major networks, used the f-bomb. remember and i told this story a couple of times. he said, we will not pay for the f-bomb|wall. and i said, oh, he's dead. can you imagine, headlines tomorrow. he used it on live television. and i said, oh, i feel so badly for the guy. and|now in one way i was happy. because he used to say, we'll never build the wall. now he's saying we'll never pay for the wall. so we made progress. add|least he's now admitting it is going to get built, right. and he seems like a nice guy but he got a little bit rough. we will never pay for the |f-bomb wall. i said oh, the poor guy he is going to get killed in the papers. nobody mentioned it. can you imagine if i threw out the f-bomb. i think|it will be the electric chair, right. would it be the electric chair. and the press, i will tell you the people back there, and i will tell you this,|not all of them, but many of them are the most dishonest human beings on the earth. they are the most dishonest human beings on earth. i've had days|that are so good, and then you wake up the next morning and you say, man, did they take that. i won't even say what things i could go one after|another. aiana. what a landslide that was. and we love bobby knight. do we love bobby knight. oh, that bobby knight. i love my bobby knight. we had so|many coaches, gene and digger and bobby. we had so many coaches. lou, lou holts. we had so many coaches that came out in our favor. i do well with|coaches. but the coaches like me. but bobby was out here working really hard. and i could see it right at the beginning. this was going to be the water|shed. but bobby came out and i came out and we went to a rinas arena arenas, you've never seen so many people. maybe you've been at some of the|arenas. it is amazing. so here is the story, folks. we have to stop four more years of obama. we've got to stop hillary clinton, who is as crooked as|they come. we've got to bring our country back. we have to make great trade deals again. we're going to make deal that's bring our jobs back. and we're|going to get along great with these countries and trade with these countries. i am not an isolationist, i'm a free trader. but i'm a free trade tore|make great deal trade tore make great deals, not to make horrible deals. one of the people standing right there, said to me, mr. trump, are you an|isolationist, and mr. trump and i said no. and what is your definition of trade? and i said very simple. i know free and i know every form of trade|known to mankind. here is my definition of trade. my definition of "trade" is that i want to make great deals for the american people. you can call it|whatever the hell you want. okay. and we're going to. we're going to bring our jobs back. we're going to bring our manufacturing back. you look at what|has happened to the manufacturing since bill clinton signed probably the worst deal economically in the history of our country, nafta. that deal was|signed by bill clinton. you look at areas even from here, but you look at places, you look at places like new england and new york state and|pennsylvania, great state we're leading in pennsylvania by the way. it just came out. i hear we're leading in florida. i hear we're leading in ohio.|i hear we're leading all over the place. and the rasmussen poll just came out, we're leading nashltionally. but we have a long way to go. we are dealing|with a dishonest system and a crooked system and a rigged system so we have a long way to go folks, and we don't want anybody to take it away from us.|and when this person said to me, by the way, what you've done is never done before, congratulations, it doesn't even matter if you win or lose the|election, what you've done has never been done before, winning all of the primaries, beating great professionals and they are very talented people, it|has never been done before, you will go down in the history books, mr. trump. i said do me a favor. don't even tell me about it. because if i don't win|the next one, i will consider it a big, fat waste of time and $55 million i put up, and i'm still putting up a lot more. and now we raised $51 million|last month and we started toward the middle of the month. and everyone was shocked. and much of that money came in small donations like $71 average or|something like that. and i put up millions. but i did it, like, i want to incentivize people and i want people to realize, i'm raising money for the|republican party and the rnc. that is what we want to do. because we want to keep our majority. we want to keep our house. we want to keep our senate.|because i'll tell you what, if we can do that, and we have trump as president, we are going to be able to do things that are going to be so great for|our country. going to be amazing. you know, we're run of the highest taxed nations in the world. and yet in going around and meeting with people, small|business people, big business people, if they had their chance, and if they had their choice, they would rather get rid of rules and regulation we|have the worst regulations anywhere in the world. they actually would rather pay more tax, which is surprising, and get rid of these regulations that|are choking everybody. people can't run their businessnning with our military. we're going to beat isis. we're winning on trade. we're winning at the|border. we're stopping drugs from pouring in. we're winning on education. we're winning with our second amendment. please, please, mike, help us. we're|winning too much. and mike will come to see me. and say, mr. president, sir, they're winning too much. the people of indiana can't stand it. i say,|mike, go back and tell them, we're not changing a damn thing. we're going to keep winning. and we're going to win at every level. and we are going to|make america so great again, we're going to make america greater than ever before. i love you indiana. thank you for all of your help. you're really|special people. thank you. we love you. thank you very much, everybody. thank you. thank you.|7/11/2016|6/28/2016|it is great to be here. id like to thank alumisource and all the amazing workers here for hosting us. today, i am going to talk about how to make|america wealthy again.|we are thirty miles from steel city. pittsburgh played a central role in building our nation.|the legacy of pennsylvania steelworkers lives in the bridges, railways and skyscrapers that make up our great american landscape.|but our workers loyalty was repaid with betrayal.|our politicians have aggressively pursued a policy of globalization moving our jobs, our wealth and our factories to mexico and overseas.|globalization has made the financial elite who donate to politicians very wealthy. but it has left millions of our workers with nothing but poverty and|heartache.|when subsidized foreign steel is dumped into our markets, threatening our factories, the politicians do nothing.|for years, they watched on the sidelines as our jobs vanished and our communities were plunged into depression-level unemployment.|many of these areas have still never recovered.|our politicians took away from the people their means of making a living and supporting their families.|skilled craftsmen and tradespeople and factory workers have seen the jobs they loved shipped thousands of miles away.|many pennsylvania towns once thriving and humming are now in a state despair.|this wave of globalization has wiped out our middle class.|it doesnt have to be this way. we can turn it all around and we can turn it around fast.|but if were going to deliver real change, were going to have to reject the campaign of fear and intimidation being pushed by powerful|corporations, media elites, and political dynasties.|the people who rigged the system for their benefit will do anything and say anything to keep things exactly as they are.|the people who rigged the system are supporting hillary clinton because they know as long as she is in charge nothing will ever change.|the inner cities will remain poor.|the factories will remain closed.|the borders will remain open.|the special interests will remain firmly in control.|hillary clinton and her friends in global finance want to scare america into thinking small and they want to scare the american people out of|voting for a better future.|read: how donald trump says hed win americas trade war|top u.s. labor leader blasts donald trump in dueling speeches|my campaign has the opposite message.|i want you to imagine how much better your life can be if we start believing in america again.|i want you to imagine how much better our future can be if we declare independence from the elites whove led us to one financial and foreign policy|disaster after another.|our friends in britain recently voted to take back control of their economy, politics and borders.|i was on the right side of that issue with the people while hillary, as always, stood with the elites, and both she and president obama|predicted that one wrong.|now its time for the american people to take back their future.|thats the choice we face. we can either give in to hillary clintons campaign of fear, or we can choose to believe in america.|we lost our way when we stopped believing in our country.|america became the worlds dominaour: im going tell our nafta partners that i intend to immediately renegotiate the terms of that agreement to|get a better deal for our workers. and i dont mean just a little bit better, i mean a lot better. if they do not agree to a renegotiation, then i|will submit notice under article 2205 of the nafta agreement that america intends to withdraw from the deal.|five: i am going to instruct my treasury secretary to label china a currency manipulator. any country that devalues their currency in order to take|advantage of the united states will be met with sharply|six: i am going to instruct the u.s. trade representative to bring trade cases against china, both in this country and at the wto. chinas unfair|subsidy behavior is prohibited by the terms of its entrance to the wto, and i intend to enforce those rules.|seven: if china does not stop its illegal activities, including its theft of american trade secrets, i will use every lawful presidential power to|remedy trade disputes, including the application of tariffs consistent with section 201 and 301 of the trade act of 1974 and section 232 of the trade|expansion act of 1962.|president reagan deployed similar trade measures when motorcycle and semiconductor imports threatened u.s. industry. his tariff on japanese motorcycles|was 45% and his tariff to shield americas semiconductor industry was 100%.|hillary clinton, and her campaign of fear, will try to spread the lie that these actions will start a trade war. she has it completely backwards.|hillary clinton unleashed a trade war against the american worker when she supported one terrible trade deal after another from nafta to china to|south korea.|a trump administration will end that war by getting a fair deal for the american people.|the era of economic surrender will finally be over.|a new era of prosperity will finally begin.|america will be independent once more.|under a trump presidency, the american worker will finally have a president who will protect them and fight for them.|we will stand up to trade cheating anywhere and everywhere it threatens an american job.|we will make america the best place in the world to start a business, hire workers, and open a factory.|this includes massive tax reform to lift the crushing burdens on american workers and businesses.|we will also get rid of wasteful rules and regulations which are destroying our job creation capacity.|many people think that these regulations are an even greater impediment than the fact that we are one of the highest taxed nations in the world.|we are also going to fully capture americas tremendous energy capacity. this will create vast profits for our workers and begin reducing our|deficit. hillary clinton wants to shut down energy production and shut down the mines.|a trump administration will also ensure that we start using american steel for american infrastructure.|just like the american steel from pennsylvania that built the empire state building.|it will be american steel that will fortify americans crumbling bridges.|it will be american steel that sends our skyscrapers soaring into the sky.|it will be american steel that rebuilds our inner cities.|it will be american hands that remake this country, and it will be american energy mined from american resources that powers this country.|it will be american workers who are hired to do the job.|we are going to put american-produced steel back into the backbone of our country. this alone will create massive numbers of jobs.|on trade, on immigration, on foreign policy, we are going to put america first again.|we are going to make america wealthy again.|we are going to reject hillary clintons politics of fear, futility, and incompetence.|we are going to embrace the possibilities of change.|it is time to believe in the future.|it is time to believe in each other.|it is time to believe in america.|this is how we are going to make america great again for all americans.|we are going to make america great again for everyone greater than ever before.|thank you.